
## Introduction (p15)

Asking  for  a  raise.  Ending  a  relationship.  Giving  a  critical  performance review.  Saying  no  to  someone  in  need.  Confronting  disrespectful  or  hurtful  behavior.  Disagreeing  with  the  majority  in  a group. Apologizing.
At work, at home, and across the backyard fence, difficult conversations are attempted or avoided every day.

## A Difficult Conversation Is Anything You Find It Hard to Talk About (p15)

Sexuality, race, gender, politics, and religion come quickly to mind as difficult topics to discuss, and for many of us they are. But discomfort and awkwardness are not limited to topics on the editorial page. Anytime we feel vulnerable or our self-esteem is implicated, when the issues at stake are important and the outcome uncertain, when we care deeply about what is being discussed or about the people with whom we are discussing it, there is potential for us to experience the conversation as difficult.
We all  have  conversations  that  we  dread  and  find  unpleasant, that we avoid or face up to like bad medicine:
One of the senior engineers at your company, an old friend, has become a liability. Management has picked you to fire him.
You overheard your mother-in-law telling a neighbor that your sons are spoiled and undisciplined. As you prepare to spend the holidays  at  her  house,  you're  not  sure  the  two  of  you  can  get through the week without a confrontation.
The project you are working on took twice as long as you told the client it would. You can't afford not to bill for the extra time, but you dread informing the client.
You want to tell your father how much you love him, but fear that the intimacy might make both of you feel awkward.
You recently learned that several black colleagues on the police force refer to you as an Uncle Tom. You're infuriated, but you aren't sure whether talking about it would accomplish anything.
And,  of  course,  there's  the  stuff  of  everyday  life,  conversations that feel more ordinary but cause anxiety nonetheless: returning merchandise without a receipt, asking your secretary to do some photocopying, telling the painters not to smoke in the house. These are the interactions we put off when we can and stumble through when we must. The ones we practice over and over in our head, trying to figure  out  in  advance  what  to  say  and  wondering  afterward  what  we should have said.
What makes these situations so hard to face? It's our fear of the consequences-whether we raise the issue or try to avoid it.

## The Dilemma: Avoid or Confront, It Seems There Is No Good Path (p16)

We all  know  this  dilemma.  We  go  round  and  round  on  the  same questions - Should I raise this? Or should I keep it to myself?
Perhaps the neighbors' dog keeps you up at night. 'Should I talk to them?' you wonder. At first, you decide not to: 'Maybe the bark-
ing will stop. Maybe I'll get used to it.' But then the dog barks again, and you resolve that tomorrow you are going to talk to the neighbors once and for all.
Now you lie awake for a different reason. The thought of getting into a fight with the neighbors about their dog makes you nervous. You want the neighbors to like you; maybe you're overreacting. Eventually, you come back to thinking it's better to say nothing, and this calms your nerves. But just as you drop off to sleep, that darn dog howls again, and your cycle of indecision starts anew.
There doesn't seem to be any choice that will allow you to sleep. Why is it so difficult to decide whether to avoid or to confront? Because at some level we know the truth: If we try to avoid the problem, we'll feel taken advantage of, our feelings will fester, we'll wonder  why  we  don't  stick  up  for  ourselves,  and  we'll  rob  the  other person of the opportunity to improve things. But if we confront the problem,  things  might  get  even  worse.  We  may  be  rejected  or  attacked; we might hurt the other person in ways we didn't intend; and the relationship might suffer.

## There Is No Such Thing as a Diplomatic Hand Grenade (p17)

Desperate for a way out of the dilemma, we wonder if it is possible to be  so  tactful,  so  overwhelmingly  pleasant  that  everything  ends  up fine.
Tact  is  good,  but  it's  not  the  answer  to  difficult  conversations. Tact  won't  make  conversations  with  your  father  more  intimate  or take away your client's anger over the increased bill. Nor is there a simple diplomatic way to fire your friend, to let your mother-in-law know that she drives you crazy, or to confront your colleagues' hurtful prejudices.
Delivering  a  difficult  message  is  like  throwing  a  hand  grenade. Coated with sugar, thrown hard or soft, a hand grenade is still going to  do  damage.  Try  as  you  may,  there's  no  way  to  throw  a  hand
grenade with tact or to outrun the consequences. And keeping it to yourself is no better. Choosing not to deliver a difficult message is like hanging on to a hand grenade once you've pulled the pin.
So we feel stuck. We need advice that is more powerful than 'Be diplomatic' or 'Try to stay positive.' The problems run deeper than that; so must the answers.

## This Book Can Help (p18)

There  is  hope.  Working  at  the  Harvard  Negotiation  Project  with thousands of people on all kinds of difficult conversations, we have found a way to make these conversations less stressful and more productive. A way to deal creatively with tough problems while treating people  with  decency  and  integrity.  An  approach  that  is  helpful  to your peace of mind, whether or not others join in.
We are going to help you get out of the hand grenade business altogether, by getting you out of the business of delivering (and receiving)  messages.  We will show you how to turn the damaging battle of warring messages into the more constructive approach we call a learning conversation.

## The Rewards Are Worth the Effort (p18)

Of course, changing how you deal with difficult conversations takes work. Like changing your golf swing, adapting to drive on the other side  of  the  road,  or  learning  a  new  language,  the  change  can  feel awkward at first.  And  it  can  feel  threatening:  breaking  out  of  your comfort zone is rarely easy and is never risk-free. It requires you to look hard at yourself, and sometimes to change and grow. But better the ache of muscles growing from an unaccustomed workout than the sting of wounds from an unnecessary fight.
And the potential rewards are rich. If you follow the steps presented in this book, you will find difficult conversations becoming easier and causing less anxiety. You will be more effective and hap-
pier with the results. And as your anxiety goes down and your satisfaction  goes  up,  you  will  find  that  you  are  choosing  to  engage  more often in conversations that you should have been having all along.
In fact, the people we've worked with, who have learned new approaches to dealing with their most challenging conversations, report less  anxiety  and  greater  effectiveness  in all of  their  conversations. They find they are less afraid of what others might say. They have a heightened sense of freedom of action in tough situations, more selfconfidence, and a stronger sense of integrity and self-respect. They also  learn  that,  more  often  than  not,  dealing  constructively  with tough topics and awkward situations strengthens a relationship. And that's an opportunity too good to pass up.

## Skeptical? A Few Thoughts (p19)

If you're skeptical, that's understandable. You may have been struggling with these issues for weeks, months, or years. The problems are complex, and the people involved are not easy to deal with. How can reading a book make a difference?
There are limits to how much you can learn about human interactions from a book. We don't know the specifics of your situation, what  is  at  stake  for  you,  or  where  your  particular  weaknesses  and strengths lie. But we have discovered that, regardless of context, the things  that  make  difficult  conversations  difficult,  and  the  errors  in thinking and acting that compound those difficulties, are the same. We all share the same fears and fall into the same few traps. No matter what you are facing, or whom, there is something in this book that can help.
It is true that some situations are unlikely to improve regardless of how skilled you become. The people involved may be so emotionally  troubled,  the  stakes  so  high,  or  the  conflict  so  intense  that  a book-or even professional intervention - is unlikely to help. However, for every case that is truly hopeless, there are a thousand that appear hopeless but are not. People often come to us saying, 'I want some advice, but I have to warn you, this situation is beyond fixing.'
And they are wrong. Together we are able to find some avenue of change  that  ends  up  having  a significant positive  impact  on  the conversation.
Of course, you may not be ready or able to engage or reengage fully in a difficult situation or relationship. You may be grieving, licking your wounds, or just needing time away. You may be lost in anger or confused about what you want. But even if you are not yet ready to take on an actual conversation, this book can help you sort through your feelings and assist you as you find your way to a healthier place.

## We Need to Look in New Places (p20)

What can we suggest that you haven't already thought of? Probably quite a bit. Because the question isn't whether you've been looking hard enough for the 'answer' to difficult conversations, it's whether you've been looking in the right places. At heart, the problem isn't in your actions, it's in your thinking. So long as you focus only on what to do differently in difficult conversations, you will fail to break new ground.
This book offers plenty of advice on how to conduct a difficult conversation. But first and more important, it will help you understand better what you're up against and why it makes sense to shift from a 'message delivery stance' to a 'learning stance.' Only then will you be able to understand and implement the steps of a learning conversation.

## Difficult Conversations Are a Normal Part of Life (p20)

No matter how good you get, difficult conversations will always challenge you. The authors know this from experiences in our own lives. We know what it feels like to be deeply afraid of hurting someone or of getting hurt. We know what it means to be consumed by guilt for how our actions have affected others, or for how we have let ourselves
down. We know that even with the best of intentions, human relationships can corrode or become tangled, and, if we are honest, we also know that we don't always have the best of intentions. We know just how fragile are the heart and the soul.
So  it  is  best  to  keep  your  goals  realistic.  Eliminating  fear  and anxiety is an unrealistic goal. Reducing fear and anxiety and learning how to manage that which remains are more obtainable. Achieving perfect results with no risk will not happen. Getting better results in the face of tolerable odds might.
And that, for most of us, is good enough. For if we are fragile, we are also remarkably resilient.

## The Problem (p23)


## 1 (p25)


## Sort Out the Three Conversations (p25)

Jack is about to have a difficult conversation.
He explains: 'Late one afternoon I got a call from Michael, a good friend and occasional client. 'I'm in a tight spot,' he told me. 'I need a financial  brochure  laid  out  and  printed  by  tomorrow  afternoon.' He said his regular designer was out and that he was under a lot of pressure.
'I  was  in  the  middle  of  another  project,  but  Michael  was  a friend, so I dropped everything and worked late into the night on his brochure.
'Early  the  next  morning  Michael  reviewed  the  mock-up  and gave the go-ahead to have it printed. I had the copies on his desk by noon. I was exhausted, but I was glad I'd been able to help him out.
'Then  I  got  back  to  my  office  and  discovered  this  voice-mail message from Michael:
Well, you really screwed this one up! Look, Jack, I know you were under time pressure on this, but . . . . [sigh]. The earnings chart isn't presented clearly enough, and it's slightly off. It's just a disaster. This is an important client. I assume you'll fix it right away. Give me a call as soon as you get in.
'Well, you can imagine how I felt about that message. The chart was off, but microscopically. I called Michael right away.'
Michael: Yeah, look Jack, this thing has to be done over.
Jack: Well, wait a second. I agree it's not perfect, but the chart is clearly labeled. Nobody's going to misunderstand -
Michael: C'mon, Jack. You know as well as I do that we can't send this thing out like this.
Michael: There's really nothing to argue about here. Look, we all screw up. Just fix it and let's move on.
Jack: Why didn't you say something about this when you looked at it this morning?
Michael: I'm not the one who's supposed to be proofreading. Jack, I'm under tremendous pressure to get this done and to get it done right. Either you're on the team or you're not. I need a yes or a no. Are you going to redo it?
Jack: [pause] Alright, alright. I'll do it.
This exchange has all the hallmarks of a difficult conversation going off the rails. Months later, Jack still feels lousy about this conversation  and  his  relationship  with  Michael  remains  strained.  He wonders what he could have done differently, and what he should do about it now.
But before we get to that, let's look at what Jack and Michael's conversation can teach us about how difficult conversations work.

## Decoding the Structure of Difficult Conversations (p26)

Surprisingly, despite what appear to be infinite variations, all difficult conversations share a common structure. When you're caught up in the  details  and  anxiety  of  a  particular  difficult  conversation,  this structure is hard to see. But understanding that structure is essential to improving how you handle your most challenging conversations.

## There's More Here Than Meets the Ear (p27)

In the conversation between Jack and Michael recounted above, the words reveal only the surface of what is really going on. To make the structure of a difficult  conversation  visible,  we  need  to  understand not only what is said, but also what is not said. We need to understand what the people involved are thinking and feeling but not saying to each other. In a difficult conversation, this is usually where the real action is.
Look at what Jack is thinking and feeling, but not saying, as this conversation proceeds:
Meanwhile, there's  plenty  that  Michael  is  thinking  and  feeling but not saying. Michael is wondering whether he should have hired Jack in the first place. He hasn't been all that happy with Jack's work in the past, but he decided to go out on a limb with his partners to give his  friend  another chance. Michael is now frustrated with Jack and confused about whether hiring Jack was a good decision - personally or professionally.
The first insight, then, is a simple one: there's an awful lot going on between Jack and Michael that is not being spoken.
That's typical. In fact, the gap between what you're really thinking and what you're saying is part of what makes a conversation difficult. You're distracted by all that's going on inside. You're uncertain about  what's  okay  to  share,  and  what's  better  left  unsaid.  And  you know that just saying what you're thinking would probably not make the conversation any easier.

## Each Difficult Conversation Is Really Three Conversations (p29)

In studying hundreds of conversations of every kind we have discovered  that  there  is  an  underlying  structure  to  what's  going  on,  and understanding this structure, in itself, is a powerful first step in improving how we deal with these conversations. It turns out that no matter what the subject, our thoughts and feelings fall into the same three categories, or 'conversations.' And in each of these conversations we make predictable errors that distort our thoughts and feelings, and get us into trouble.
Everything  problematic  that  Michael  and  Jack  say,  think,  and feel falls into one of these three 'conversations.' And everything in your difficult conversations does too.
The 'What Happened?' Conversation. Most difficult conversations  involve  disagreement  about  what  has  happened  or  what should happen. Who said what and who did what? Who's right, who meant what, and who's to blame? Jack and Michael tussle over these issues,  both  out  loud  and internally. Does the chart need to be redone? Is Michael trying to intimidate Jack? Who should have caught the error?
The Feelings Conversation. Every difficult conversation also asks and answers questions about feelings. Are my feelings valid? Appropriate? Should I acknowledge or deny them, put them on the table or check them at the door? What do I do about the other person's feelings?  What  if  they  are  angry  or  hurt?  Jack's  and  Michael's thoughts are littered with feelings. For example, 'This is the thanks I
get?!' signals hurt and anger, and 'I'm under tremendous pressure' reveals anxiety. These feelings are not addressed directly in the conversation, but they leak in anyway.
3. The Identity Conversation. This is the conversation we each have with ourselves about what this situation means to us. We conduct an internal debate over whether this means we are competent or incompetent, a good person or bad, worthy of love or unlovable. What impact might it have on our self-image and self-esteem, our future and our well-being? Our answers to these questions determine in large part whether we feel 'balanced' during the conversation, or whether we feel off-center and anxious. In the conversation between Jack and Michael, Jack is struggling with the sense that he has been incompetent, which makes him feel less balanced. And Michael is wondering whether he acted foolishly in hiring Jack.
Every difficult conversation involves grappling with these Three Conversations, so engaging successfully requires learning to operate effectively in each of the three realms. Managing all three simultaneously may seem hard, but it's easier than facing the consequences of engaging in difficult conversations blindly.

## What We Can't Change, and What We Can (p30)

No matter how skilled we become, there are certain challenges in each of the Three Conversations that we can't change. We will still run into situations where untangling 'what happened' is more complicated than we initially suspect. We will each have information the other person is unaware of, and raising each other's awareness is not easy. And we will still face emotionally charged situations that feel threatening because they put important aspects of our identity at risk.
What we can change is the way we respond to each of these challenges.  Typically,  instead  of  exploring  what  information  the  other person might have that we don't, we assume we know all we need to know to understand and explain things. Instead of working to man-
age our feelings constructively, we either try to hide them or let loose in ways that we later regret. Instead of exploring the identity issues that  may be deeply at stake for us (or them), we proceed with the conversation as if it says nothing about us - and never come to grips with what is at the heart of our anxiety.
By understanding these errors and the havoc they wreak, we can begin to craft better approaches. Let's explore each conversation in more depth.

## The 'What Happened?' Conversation: What's the Story Here? (p31)

The 'What Happened?' Conversation is where we spend much of our time in difficult conversations as we struggle with our different stories about who's right, who meant what, and who's to blame. On each of these three fronts - truth, intentions, and blame - we make a common but crippling assumption. Straightening out each of these assumptions is essential to improving our ability to handle difficult conversations well.

## The Truth Assumption (p31)

As we argue vociferously for our view, we often fail to question one crucial assumption upon which our whole stance in the conversation is  built:  I  am  right,  you  are  wrong.  This  simple  assumption causes endless grief.
What am I right about? I am right that you drive too fast. I am right that you are unable to mentor younger colleagues. I am right that your comments at Thanksgiving were inappropriate. I am right that the patient should have received more medication after such a painful operation. I am right that the contractor overcharged me. I am right that I deserve a raise. I am right that the brochure is fine as it is. The number of things I am right about would fill a book.
How could this be so? It seems impossible. Surely I must be right sometimes!
Well,  no.  The  point  is  this:  difficult  conversations  are  almost never about getting the facts right. They are about conflicting perceptions, interpretations, and values. They are not about what a contract states, they are about what a contract means. They are not about which  child-rearing  book  is  most  popular,  they  are  about  which child-rearing book we should follow.
They are not about what is true, they are about what is important. Let's come back to Jack and Michael. There is no dispute about whether the graph is accurate or not. They both agree it is not. The dispute is over whether the error is worth worrying about and, if so, how to handle it. These are not questions of right and wrong, but questions of interpretation and judgment. Interpretations and judgments are important to explore. In contrast, the quest to determine who is right and who is wrong is a dead end.
In the 'What Happened?' Conversation, moving away from the truth assumption frees us to shift our purpose from proving we are right to understanding the perceptions, interpretations, and values of both sides. It allows us to move away from delivering messages and toward asking questions, exploring how each person is making sense of the world. And to offer our views as perceptions, interpretations, and values - not as 'the truth.'

## The Intention Invention (p32)

The  second  argument  in  the  'What  Happened?'  Conversation  is over  intentions - yours  and  mine.  Did  you  yell  at  me  to  hurt  my feelings or merely to emphasize your point? Did you throw my cigarettes  out  because  you're  trying  to  control  my  behavior  or  because you want to help me live up to my commitment to quit? What I think about  your  intentions  will  affect  how  I  think  about  you  and,  ultimately, how our conversation goes.
The error we make in the realm of intentions is simple but profound: we assume we know the intentions of others when we don't. Worse still, when we are unsure about someone's intentions, we too often decide they are bad.
The  truth  is,  intentions  are  invisible.  We  assume  them  from other people's behavior. In other words, we make them up, we invent them. But our invented stories about other people's intentions are accurate much less often than we think. Why? Because people's intentions,  like  so  much  else  in  difficult  conversations,  are  complex. Sometimes  people  act  with  mixed  intentions.  Sometimes  they  act with no intention, or at least none related to us. And sometimes they act on good intentions that nonetheless hurt us.
Because our view of others' intentions (and their views of ours) are so important in difficult conversations, leaping to unfounded assumptions can be a disaster.

## The Blame Frame (p33)

The third error  we  make  in  the  'What  Happened?'  Conversation has to do with blame. Most difficult conversations focus significant attention on who's to blame for the mess we're in. When the company  loses  its  biggest  client,  for  example,  we  know  that  there  will shortly ensue a ruthless game of blame roulette. We don't care where the ball lands, as long as it doesn't land on us. Personal relationships are no different. Your relationship with your stepmother is strained? She's to blame. She should stop bugging you about your messy room and the kids you hang out with.
In  the  conflict  between  Jack  and  Michael,  Jack  believes  the problem is Michael's fault: the time to declare your hypersensitivity to  formatting  is  before  the  brochure  goes  to  print,  not  after.  And, of course, Michael believes the problem is Jack's fault: Jack did the layout, mistakes are his responsibility.
But  talking  about  fault  is  similar  to  talking  about  truth - it produces  disagreement,  denial,  and  little  learning.  It  evokes  fears
of  punishment  and  insists  on  an  either/or  answer.  Nobody  wants to be blamed, especially unfairly, so our energy goes into defending ourselves.
Parents of small children know this well. When the twins act up in the back seat of the car, we know that trying to affix blame will always yield an outcry: 'But she hit me first!' or 'I hit her because she called me a baby.' Each child denies blame not just to avoid losing her  dessert,  but  also  from  a  sense  of  justice.  Neither  feels  like  the problem is solely her fault, because it isn't.
From the front seat looking back, it is easy to see how each child has contributed to the fight. It's much more difficult to see how we've contributed to the problems in which we ourselves are involved. But in situations that give rise to difficult conversations, it is almost always true that what happened is the result of things both people did -or failed to do. And punishment is rarely relevant or appropriate. When competent, sensible people do something stupid, the smartest move is to try to figure out, first, what kept them from seeing it coming and, second, how to prevent the problem from happening again.
Talking about blame distracts us from exploring why things went wrong and how we might correct them going forward. Focusing instead  on  understanding  the  contribution  system  allows  us  to  learn about  the  real  causes  of  the  problem,  and  to  work  on  correcting them. The distinction between blame and contribution may seem subtle. But it is a distinction worth working to understand, because it will make a significant difference in your ability to handle difficult conversations.

## The Feelings Conversation: What Should We Do with Our Emotions? (p34)

Difficult conversations are not just about what happened; they also involve  emotion.  The  question  is  not  whether  strong  feelings  will arise, but how to handle them when they do. Should you tell your boss how you really feel  about his management style, or about the
colleague who stole your idea? Should you share with your sister how hurt you feel that she stayed friends with your ex? And what should you do with the anger you are likely to experience if you decide to talk with that vendor about his sexist remarks?
In the presence of strong feelings, many of us work hard to stay rational. Getting too deep into feelings is messy, clouds good judgment, and in some contexts - for example, at work - can seem just plain inappropriate. Bringing up feelings can also be scary or uncomfortable, and can make us feel vulnerable. After all, what if the other person dismisses  our  feelings  or  responds  without  real  understanding? Or takes our feelings to heart in a way that wounds them or irrevocably  damages  the  relationship?  And  once  we've  gotten  our feelings off our chest, it's their turn. Are we up to hearing all about their anger and pain?
This line of reasoning suggests that we stay out of the Feelings Conversation altogether - that Jack is better off not sharing his feelings  of  anger  and  hurt,  or  Michael  his  sense  of  disappointment. Better  to  stick  to  questions  about  the  brochure.  Better  to  stick  to 'business.'

## An Opera Without Music (p35)

The problem with this reasoning is that it fails to take account of one simple fact: difficult conversations do not just involve feelings, they are  at  their  very  core about feelings.  Feelings  are  not  some  noisy byproduct of engaging in difficult talk, they are an integral part of the conflict. Engaging in a difficult conversation without talking about feelings is like staging an opera without the music. You'll get the plot but miss the point. In the conversation between Jack and Michael, for  example,  Jack  never  explicitly  says  that  he  feels  mistreated  or underappreciated, yet months later Jack can still summon his anger and resentment toward Michael.
Consider some of your own difficult  conversations.  What  feel-
ings  are  involved?  Hurt  or  anger?  Disappointment,  shame,  confusion? Do you feel treated unfairly or without respect? For some of us, even saying 'I love you' or 'I'm proud of you' can feel risky.
In  the  short  term,  engaging  in  a  difficult  conversation  without talking about feelings may save you time and reduce your anxiety. It may also seem like a way to avoid certain serious risks - to you, to others, and to the relationship. But the question remains: if feelings are the issue, what have you accomplished if you don't address them?
Understanding feelings, talking about feelings, managing feelings - these are among the greatest challenges of being human. There is nothing that will make dealing with feelings easy and riskfree. Most of us, however, can do a better job in the Feelings Conversation than we are now. It may not seem like it, but talking about feelings is a skill that can be learned.
Of course, it doesn't always make sense to discuss feelings. As the saying  goes,  sometimes  you  should  let  sleeping  dogs  lie.  Unfortunately, a lack of skill in discussing feelings may cause you to avoid not only sleeping dogs, but all dogs - even those that won't let you sleep.

## The Identity Conversation: What Does This Say About Me? (p36)

Of the Three Conversations, the Identity Conversation may be the most  subtle  and  the  most  challenging.  But  it  offers  us  significant leverage  in  managing  our  anxiety  and  improving  our  skills  in  the other two conversations.
The Identity Conversation looks inward: it's all about who we are and how we see ourselves. How does what happened affect my selfesteem, my self-image, my sense of who I am in the world? What impact  will  it  have  on  my  future?  What  self-doubts  do  I  harbor?  In short: before, during, and after the difficult conversation, the Identity Conversation is about what I am saying to myself about me.
You might think, 'I'm just trying to ask my boss for a raise. Why does my sense of who I am in the world matter here?' Or Jack might be thinking, 'This is about the brochure, not about me.' In fact, any-
time a conversation feels difficult, it is in part precisely because it is about  You,  with  a  capital Y. Something beyond the apparent substance of the conversation is at stake for you.
It  may be something simple. What does it say about you when you talk to your neighbors about their dog? It may be that growing up in a small town gave you a strong self-image as a friendly person and good  neighbor,  so  you  are  uncomfortable  with  the  possibility  that your neighbors might see you as aggressive or as a troublemaker.
Asking for a raise? What if you get turned down? In fact, what if your boss gives you good reasons for turning you down? What will that do to your self-image as a competent and respected employee? Ostensibly the subject is money, but what's really making you sweat is that your self-image is on the line.
Even  when  you  are  the  one  delivering  bad  news,  the  Identity Conversation is in play. Imagine, for example, that you have to turn down an attractive new project proposal from Creative. The prospect of telling the people involved makes you anxious, even if you aren't responsible for the decision. In part, it's  because  you  fear  how  the conversation will make you feel about yourself: 'I'm not the kind of person who lets people down and crushes enthusiasm. I'm the person people respect for fi nding a way to do it, not for shutting the door.' Your self-image as a person who helps others get things done butts up against  the  reality  that  you  are  going  to  be  saying  no.  If  you're  no longer the hero, will people see you as the villain?

## Keeping Your Balance (p37)

As you begin to sense the implications of the conversation for your self-image, you may begin to lose your balance. The eager young head of Creative, who reminds you so much of yourself at that age, looks disbelieving and betrayed. You suddenly feel confused; your anxiety skyrockets. You wonder whether it really makes sense to drop the idea so early in the process. Before you know it, you stammer out something  about  the  possibility  that  the  rejection  will  be  reconsidered, even though you have absolutely no reason to believe that's likely.
In its mildest form, losing our balance may cause us to lose confidence in ourselves, to lose concentration, or to forget what we were going to say. In more extreme cases, it can feel earth-shattering. We may feel paralyzed, overcome by panic, stricken with an urge to flee, or even have trouble breathing.
Just  knowing that the Identity Conversation is a component of difficult conversations can help. And, as in the other two conversations,  you  can  do  much  better  than  mere  awareness.  While  losing your  balance  sometimes  is  inevitable,  the  Identity  Conversation need not cause as much anxiety as it does. Like dealing with feelings, grappling with the Identity Conversation gets easier with the development of certain skills. Indeed, once you find your footing in the Identity Conversation, you can turn what is often a source of anxiety into a source of strength.

## Moving Toward a Learning Conversation (p38)

Despite what we sometimes pretend, our initial purpose for having a difficult conversation is often to prove a point, to give them a piece of our mind, or to get them to do or be what we want. In other words, to deliver a message.
Once you understand the challenges inherent in the Three Conversations and the mistakes we make in each, you are likely to find that your purpose for having a particular conversation begins to shift. You come to appreciate the complexity of the perceptions and intentions involved, the reality of joint contribution to the problem, the central role feelings have to play, and what the issues mean to each person's self-esteem and identity. And you find that a message delivery stance no longer makes sense. In fact, you may find that you no longer  have  a  message  to  deliver,  but  rather  some  information  to share and some questions to ask.
Instead  of  wanting  to  persuade  and  get  your  way,  you  want  to understand what has happened from the other person's point of view, explain your point of view, share and understand feelings, and work together to figure out a way to manage the problem going forward. In
so doing, you make it more likely that the other person will be open to  being  persuaded, and that you will learn something that significantly changes the way you understand the problem.
Changing our stance means inviting the other person into the conversation with us, to help us figure things out. If we're going to achieve our purposes, we have lots we need to learn from them and lots they need to learn from us. We need to have a learning conversation.
The differences between a typical battle of messages and a learning conversation are summarized in the chart on the following pages.
This book will help you turn difficult conversations into learning conversations by helping you handle each of the Three Conversations  more  productively  and  improving  your  ability  to  handle  all three at once.
The next five chapters explore in depth the mistakes people commonly make in each of the Three Conversations. This will help you shift to a learning stance when it's your difficult conversation and you
aren't feeling very open. Chapters 2, 3, and 4 investigate the three assumptions in the 'What Happened?' Conversation. Chapter 5 shifts to  the  Feelings  Conversation,  and  Chapter  6  takes  up  the  Identity Conversation. These chapters will help you sort out your thoughts and feelings. This preparation is essential before you step into any difficult conversation.
In the final six chapters we turn to the conversation itself, beginning with when to raise an issue and when to let go, and if you're going to raise it, what you can hope to achieve and what you can't what purposes make sense. Then we turn to the mechanics of how to talk productively about the issues that matter to you: finding the best ways to begin, inquiring and listening to learn, expressing yourself with power and clarity, and solving problems jointly, including how to get the conversation back on track when the going gets rough. Finally,  we  return  to  how  Jack  might  have  a  follow-up  conversation with Michael to illustrate how this all might look in practice.

## Shift to a Learning Stance (p43)


## The 'What Happened?' Conversation (p45)


## Stop Arguing About Who's Right: Explore Each Other's Stories (p47)

Michael's version of the story is different from Jack's:
In the past couple of years I've really gone out of my way to try to help Jack out, and it seems one thing or another has always gone wrong. And instead of assuming that the client is always right, he argues with me! I just don't know how I can keep using him.
But what really made me angry was the way Jack was making excuses about the chart instead of just fixing it. He knew it wasn't up to professional standards. And the revenue graphs were the critical part of the financial presentation.
One of the hallmarks of the 'What Happened?' Conversation is that people disagree. What's the best way to save for retirement? How much money should we put into advertising? Should the neighborhood boys let your daughter play stick ball? Is the brochure up to professional standards?
Disagreement is not a bad thing, nor does it necessarily lead to a difficult  conversation.  We  disagree  with  people  all  the  time,  and often no one cares very much.
But other times, we care a lot. The disagreement seems at the heart of what is going wrong between us. They won't agree with what we want them to agree with and they won't do what we need them to do. Whether or not we end up getting our way, we are left feeling
frustrated, hurt, or misunderstood. And often the disagreement continues into the future, wreaking havoc whenever it raises its head.
When disagreement occurs, arguing may seem natural, even reasonable. But it's not helpful.

## Why We Argue, and Why It Doesn't Help (p48)

Think  about  your  own  difficult  conversations  in  which  there  are important disagreements over what is really going on or what should be done. What's your explanation for what's causing the problem?

## We Think They Are the Problem (p48)

In a charitable mood, you may think, 'Well, everyone has their opinion,' or, 'There are two sides to every story.' But most of us don't really buy that. Deep down, we believe that the problem, put simply, is them.
They're selfish. 'My girlfriend won't go to a couples' counselor with me. She says it's a waste of money. I say it's important to me, but she doesn't care.'
They're naive. 'My daughter's got these big ideas about going to New York and 'making it' in the theater. She just doesn't understand what she's up against.'
They're controlling. 'We always do everything my boss's way. It drives  me  crazy,  because  he  acts  like  his  ideas  are  better  than anyone  else's,  even  when  he  doesn't  know  what  he's  talking about.'
They're irrational. 'My Great Aunt Bertha sleeps on this sagging old  mattress.  She's  got  terrible  back  problems,  but  no  matter what I say, she refuses to let me buy her a new mattress. Everyone
in the family tells me, 'Rory, Aunt Bertha is just crazy. You can't reason with her.' I guess it's true.'
If this is what we're thinking, then it's not surprising that we end up  arguing.  Rory,  for  example,  cares  about  her  Aunt  Bertha.  She wants to help, and she has the capacity to help. So Rory does what we all do: If the other person is stubborn, we assert harder in an attempt to break through whatever is keeping them from seeing what is sensible. ('If you would just try a new mattress, you'd see how much more comfortable it is!')
If  the other person is naive, we try to educate them about how life really is, and if they are being selfish or manipulative, we may try to be forthright and call them on it. We persist in the hope that what we say will eventually make a difference.
But instead, our persistence leads to arguments. And these arguments lead nowhere. Nothing gets settled. We each feel unheard or poorly treated. We're frustrated not only because the other person is being so unreasonable, but also because we feel powerless to do anything about it. And the constant arguing isn't doing the relationship any good.
Yet we're not sure what to do instead. We can't just pretend there is no disagreement, that it doesn't matter, or that it's all the same to us. It does matter, it's not all the same to us. That's why we feel so strongly about it in the first place. But if arguing leads us nowhere, what else can we do?
The first thing we should do is hear from Aunt Bertha.

## They Think We Are the Problem (p49)

Aunt Bertha would be the first to agree that her mattress is indeed old and battered. 'It's the one I shared with my husband for forty years, and  it  makes  me  feel  safe,'  she  says.  'There  are  so  many  other changes in my life, it's nice to have a little haven that stays the same.' Keeping it also provides Bertha with a sense of control over her life. When she complains, it's not because she wants answers, it's because
she likes the connection she feels when she keeps people current on her daily comings and goings.
About Rory, Aunt Bertha has this to say: 'I love her, but Rory can be  a  difficult  person.  She  doesn't  listen  or  care  much  about  what other people think, and when I tell her that, she gets very angry and unpleasant.' Rory thinks the problem is Aunt Bertha. Aunt Bertha, it seems, thinks the problem is Rory.
This raises an interesting question: Why is it always the other person who is naive or selfish or irrational or controlling? Why is it that we never think we are the problem? If you are having a difficult conversation, and someone asks why you disagree, how come you never say, 'Because what I'm saying makes absolutely no sense'?

## We Each Make Sense in Our Story of What Happened (p50)

We don't see ourselves as the problem because, in fact, we aren't. What we are saying does make sense. What's often hard to see is that what the other person is saying also makes sense. Like Rory and Aunt Bertha, we each have different stories about what is going on in the world. In Rory's story, Rory's thoughts and actions are perfectly sensible.  In  Aunt  Bertha's  story,  Aunt  Bertha's  thoughts  and  actions  are equally sensible. But Rory is not just a character in her own story, she is also a visiting character in Aunt Bertha's story. And in Aunt Bertha's story,  what  Rory  says  seems  pushy  and  insensitive.  In  Rory's  story, what Aunt Bertha says sounds irrational.
In  the  normal  course  of  things,  we  don't  notice  the  ways  in which our story of the world is different from other people's. But difficult  conversations  arise  at  precisely  those  points  where  important parts of our story collide with another person's story. We assume the collision  is  because  of  how  the  other  person  is;  they  assume  it's because  of  how  we  are.  But  really  the  collision  is  a  result  of  our stories simply being different, with neither of us realizing it. It's as if Princess Leia were trying to talk to Huck Finn. No wonder we end up arguing.

## Arguing Blocks Us from Exploring Each Other's Stories (p51)

But arguing is not only a result of our failure to see that we and the other person are in different stories - it is also part of the cause. Arguing  inhibits  our  ability  to  learn  how  the  other  person  sees  the world. When we argue, we tend to trade conclusions - the 'bottom line' of what we think: 'Get a new mattress' versus 'Stop trying to control me.' 'I'm going to New York to make it big' versus 'You're naive.' 'Couples counseling is helpful' versus 'Couples counseling is a waste of time.'
But neither conclusion makes sense in the other person's story. So  we  each  dismiss  the  other's  argument.  Rather  than  helping  us understand  our  different  views,  arguing  results  in  a  battle  of  messages. Rather than drawing us together, arguing pulls us apart.

## Arguing Without Understanding Is Unpersuasive (p51)

Arguing creates another problem in difficult conversations: it inhibits change. Telling someone to change makes it less rather than more likely  that  they  will.  This  is  because  people  almost  never  change without first feeling understood.
Consider Trevor's conversation with Karen. Trevor is the financial administrator for the state Department of Social Services. Karen is a social worker with the department. 'I cannot get Karen to turn in her paperwork on time,' explains Trevor. 'I've told her over and over that  she's  missing  the  deadlines,  but  it  doesn't  help.  And  when  I bring it up, she gets annoyed.'
Of  course  we  know  there's  another  side  to  this  story.  Unfortunately,  Trevor  doesn't  know  what  it  is.  Trevor  is  telling  Karen what she is supposed to do, but has not yet engaged her in a twoway conversation about the issue. When Trevor shifts his purposes from trying to change Karen's behavior - arguing why being late is wrong-to trying first to understand Karen, and then to be understood by her, the situation improves dramatically:
Karen described how overwhelmed and overworked she is. She puts all of her energy into her clients, who are very needy. She was feeling like I didn't appreciate that, which actually, I really didn't. On my end, I explained to her how I have to go through all kinds of extra work when she submits her paperwork late, and I explained the extra work in detail to her. She felt badly about that, and it was clear that  she  just  hadn't  thought  about  it  from  my  perspective.  She promised to put a higher priority on getting her work in on time, and so far she has.
Finally, each has learned something, and the stage for meaningful change is set.
To get anywhere in a disagreement, we need to understand the other person's story well enough to see how their conclusions make sense within it. And we need to help them understand the story in which our conclusions make sense. Understanding each other's stories  from  the  inside  won't  necessarily  'solve'  the  problem,  but  as with Karen and Trevor, it's an essential first step.

## Different Stories: Why We Each See the World Differently (p52)

As we move away from arguing and toward trying to understand the other person's story, it helps to know why people have different stories in  the  first  place.  Our  stories don't  come  out  of  nowhere. They aren't random. Our stories  are  built  in  often  unconscious but systematic ways. First,  we  take  in  information. We  experience  the  world sights,  sounds,  and  feelings. Second, we interpret what we see,  hear,  and  feel;  we  give  it all  meaning.  Then  we  draw
Where Our Stories Come From
conclusions about what's happening. And at each step, there is an opportunity for different people's stories to diverge.
Put simply, we all have different stories about the world because we each take in different information and then interpret this information in our own unique ways.
In  difficult  conversations,  too  often  we  trade  only  conclusions back and forth, without stepping down to where most of the real action is: the information and interpretations that lead each of us to see the world as we do.

## 1. We Have Different Information (p53)

There are two reasons we all have different information about the world. First, as each of us proceeds through life - and through any difficult situation - the information available to us is overwhelming. We simply can't take in all of the sights, sounds, facts, and feelings involved in even a single encounter. Inevitably, we end up noticing some things and ignoring others. And what we each choose to notice and ignore will be different. Second, we each have access to different information.
We  Notice  Different  Things. Doug  took  his  four-year-old nephew, Andrew, to watch a homecoming parade. Sitting on his uncle's  shoulders,  Andrew  shouted  with  delight  as  football  players, cheerleaders, and the school band rolled by on lavish floats. Afterward Andrew exclaimed, 'That was the best truck parade I've ever seen!'
Each float,  it  seems,  was  pulled  by  a  truck.  Andrew,  truck  obsessed as he was, saw nothing else. His Uncle Doug, truck indifferent, hadn't noticed a single truck. In a sense, Andrew and his uncle watched completely different parades.
Like Doug and Andrew, what we notice has to do with who we are and what we care about. Some of us pay more attention to feelings  and  relationships.  Others  to  status  and  power,  or  to  facts  and
logic. Some of us are artists, others are scientists, others pragmatists. Some of us want to prove we're right; others want to avoid conflict or smooth it over. Some of us tend to see ourselves as victims, others as heroes, observers, or survivors. The information we attend to varies accordingly.
Of course, neither Doug nor Andrew walked away from the parade  thinking,  'I  enjoyed  my  particular  perspective  on  the  parade based  on  the  information  I  paid  attention  to.'  Each  walked  away thinking, 'I enjoyed the parade.' Each assumes that what he paid attention to was what was significant about the experience. Each assumes he has 'the facts.'
In  a  more  serious  setting,  Randy  and  Daniel,  coworkers  on  an assembly line, experience the same dynamic. They've had a number of tense conversations about racial issues. Randy, who is white, believes that the company they work for has a generally good record on minority  recruitment  and  promotion.  He  notices  that  of  the  seven people on his assembly team, two are African Americans and one is Latino, and that the head of the union is Latino. He has also learned that his supervisor is originally from the Philippines. Randy believes in the merits of a diverse workplace and has noticed approvingly that several people of color have recently been promoted.
Daniel, who is Korean American, has a different view. He has been on the receiving end of unusual questions about his qualifications. He has experienced several racial slurs from coworkers and one from a foreman. These experiences are prominent in his mind. He also  knows  of  several  minority  coworkers  who  were  overlooked  for promotion, and notices that a disproportionate number of the top executives at the company are white. And Daniel has listened repeatedly to executives who talk as if the only two racial categories that mattered were white and African American.
While Randy and Daniel have some information that is shared, they have quite a bit of information that's not. Yet each assumes that the facts are plain, and his view is reality. In an important sense, it's as if Randy and Daniel work at different companies.
Often we go through an entire conversation - or indeed an entire relationship - without ever realizing that each of us is paying at-
tention to different things, that our views are based on different information.
We Each Know Ourselves Better Than Anyone Else Can. In addition to choosing different information, we each have access to different information. For example, others have access to information about themselves that we don't. They know the constraints they are under; we don't. They know their hopes, dreams, and fears; we don't. We act as if we've got access to all the important information there is to know about them, but we don't. Their internal experience is far more complex than we imagine.
Let's return to the example of Jack and Michael. When Michael describes what happened, he doesn't mention anything about Jack's staying up all night. He might not know that Jack stayed up all night, and even if he does, his 'knowledge' would be quite limited compared to what Jack knows about it. Jack was there. Jack knows what it felt like as he struggled to stay awake. He knows how uncomfortable it was when the heat was turned off at midnight. He knows how angry his wife was that he had to cancel their dinner together. He knows about the anxiety he felt putting aside other important work to do Michael's project. Jack also knows how happy he felt to be doing a favor for a friend.
And there is plenty that Jack is not aware of. Jack doesn't know that Michael's client blew up just that morning over the choice of photograph in another brochure Michael had prepared. Jack doesn't know that the revenue figures are a particularly hot topic because of questions about some of the client's recent business decisions. Jack doesn't know that Michael's graphic designer has taken an unscheduled personal leave in the midst of their busiest season, affecting not just this project but others as well. Jack doesn't know that Michael has been dissatisfied with some of Jack's work in the past. And Jack doesn't know how happy Michael felt to be doing a favor for a friend.
Of course, in advance, we don't know what we don't know. But rather  than  assuming  we  already  know  everything  we  need  to,  we should assume that there is important information we don't have access to. It's a good bet to be true.

## 2. We Have Different Interpretations (p56)

'We never  have  sex,'  Alvie  Singer  complains  in  the  movie Annie Hall. 'We're constantly having sex,' says his girlfriend. 'How often do you have sex?' asks their therapist. 'Three times a week!' they reply in unison.
A  second  reason  we  tell  different  stories  about  the  world  is that,  even  when  we  have  the  same  information,  we  interpret  it differently - we  give  it  different  meaning.  I  see  the  cup  as  half empty; you see it as a metaphor for the fragility of humankind. I'm thirsty; you're a poet. Two especially important factors in how we interpret what we see are (1) our past experiences and (2) the implicit rules we've learned about how things should and should not be done.
We Are Influenced by Past Experiences. The past gives meaning to the present. Often, it is only in the context of someone's past experience that we can understand why what they are saying or doing makes any kind of sense.
To  celebrate  the  end  of  a  long  project,  Bonnie  and  her  coworkers scraped together the money to treat their supervisor, Caroline, to dinner at a nice restaurant. Throughout the meal, Caroline did little  but  complain: 'Everything is overpriced,' 'How can they get away with this?' and 'You've got to be kidding. Five dollars for dessert!'  Bonnie  went  home  embarrassed  and  frustrated,  thinking, 'We  knew  she  was  cheap,  but  this  is  ridiculous.  We  paid  so  she wouldn't have to worry about the money, and still she complained about the cost. She ruined the evening.'
Though the story in Bonnie's head was that Caroline was simply a cheapskate or wet blanket, Bonnie eventually decided to ask Caroline why she had such a strong reaction to the expense of eating out. Upon reflection, Caroline explained:
I suppose it has to do with growing up during the Depression. I can still hear my mother's voice from when I was little, getting ready to
go  off  to  school  in  the  morning.  'Carrie,  there's  a  nickel  on  the counter for your lunch!' she'd call. She was so proud to be able to buy my lunch every day. Once I got to be eight or nine, a nickel wasn't enough to buy lunch anymore. But I never had the heart to tell her.
Years later, even a moderately priced meal can feel like an extravagance to Caroline when filtered through the images and feelings of this experience.
Every strong view you have is profoundly influenced by your past experiences.  Where  to  vacation,  whether  to  spank  your  kids,  how much to budget for advertising - all are influenced by what you've observed in your own family and learned throughout your life. Often we aren't even aware of how these experiences affect our interpretation of the world. We simply believe that this is the way things are.
We Apply Different Implicit Rules. Our past experiences often develop  into  'rules'  by  which  we  live  our  lives.  Whether  we  are aware of them or not, we all follow such rules. They tell us how the world works, how people should act, or how things are supposed to be. And they have a significant influence on the story we tell about what is happening between us in a difficult conversation.
We get into trouble when our rules collide.
Ollie and Thelma, for example, are stuck in a tangle of conflicting rules. As sales representatives, they spend a lot of time together on the road. One evening, they agreed to meet at 7:00 the next morning in the hotel lobby to finish preparing a presentation. Thelma, as usual, arrived at 7:00 sharp. Ollie showed up at 7:10. This was not the  first  time  Ollie  had  arrived  late,  and  Thelma  was  so  frustrated that  she  had  trouble  focusing  for  the  first  twenty  minutes  of  their meeting. Ollie was frustrated that Thelma was frustrated.
It  helps  to  clarify  the  implicit  rules  that  each  is  unconsciously applying.  Thelma's  rule  is  'It  is  unprofessional  and  inconsiderate to be late.' Ollie's rule is 'It is unprofessional to obsess about small things so much that you can't focus on what's important.' Because
Thelma and Ollie both interpret the situation through the lens of their  own  implicit  rule,  they  each  see  the  other  person  as  acting inappropriately.
Our implicit rules often take the form of things people 'should' or  'shouldn't'  do:  'You  should  spend  money  on  education,  but not on clothes.' 'You should never criticize a colleague in front of others.' 'You should never leave the toilet seat up, squeeze the toothpaste  in  the  middle,  or  let  the  kids  watch  more  than  two  hours  of TV.' The list is endless.
There's nothing wrong with having these rules. In fact, we need them to order our lives.  But  when  you  find  yourself  in  conflict,  it helps to make your rules explicit and to encourage the other person to  do  the  same.  This  greatly  reduces  the  chance  that  you  will  be caught in an accidental duel of conflicting rules.

## 3. Our Conclusions Reflect Self-Interest (p58)

Finally, when we think about why we each tell our own stories about the world, there is no getting around the fact that our conclusions are partisan, that they often reflect our self-interest. We look for information to support our view and give that information the most favorable interpretation. Then we feel even more certain that our view is right.
Professor Howard Raiffa of the Harvard Business School demonstrated this phenomenon when he gave teams of people a set of facts about a company. He told some of the teams they would be negotiating to buy the company, and others that they would be selling the company. He then asked each team to value the company as objectively as possible (not the price at which they would offer to buy or sell, but what they believed it was actually worth). Raiffa found that sellers, in their heart of hearts, believed the company to be worth on average 30 percent more than the independently assessed fair market value. Buyers, in turn, valued it at 30 percent less.
Each team developed a self-serving perception without realizing they were doing so. They focused more on things that were consistent with what they wanted to believe and tended to ignore, explain
away, and soon forget those that weren't. Our colleague Roger Fisher captured this phenomenon in a wry reflection on his days as a litigator: 'I sometimes failed to persuade the court that I was right, but I never failed to persuade myself!'
This  tendency  to  develop  unconsciously  biased  perceptions  is very  human, and can be dangerous. It calls for a dose of humility about  the  'rightness'  of  our  story,  especially  when  we  have  something important at stake.

## Move from Certainty to Curiosity (p59)

There's only one way to come to understand the other person's story, and that's by being curious. Instead of asking yourself, 'How can they think that?!' ask yourself, 'I wonder what information they have that I  don't?'  Instead  of  asking,  'How  can  they  be  so  irrational?'  ask, 'How might they see the world such that their view makes sense?' Certainty locks us out of their story; curiosity lets us in.

## Curiosity: The Way into Their Story (p59)

Consider the disagreement between Tony and his wife, Keiko. Tony's sister  has  just  given  birth  to  her  first  child.  The  next  day  Keiko  is getting ready to visit the hospital. To her shock, Tony says he's not going with her to visit his sister, but instead is going to watch the football game on TV. When Keiko asks why, Tony mumbles something about this  being  a  'big  game,'  and  adds,  'I'll  stop  by  the  hospital tomorrow.'
Keiko  is  deeply  troubled  by  this.  She  thinks  to  herself,  'What kind of person thinks football is more important than family? That's the most selfish, shallow, ridiculous thing I've ever heard!' But she catches  herself  in  her  own  certainty,  and  instead  of  saying,  'How could you do such a thing?' she negotiates herself to a place of curiosity. She wonders what Tony knows that she doesn't, how he's seeing the world such that his decision seems to make sense.
The story Tony tells is different from what Keiko had imagined. From the outside, Tony is watching a game on TV. But to Tony it's a matter  of  his  mental  health.  Throughout  the  week,  he  works  ten hours a day under extremely stressful conditions, then comes home and  plays  with  his  two  boys,  doing  whatever  they  want.  After  the struggle of getting them to bed, he spends time with Keiko, talking mostly about her day. Finally, he collapses into bed. For Tony, watching the game is the one time during the week when he can truly relax. His stress level goes down, almost as if he's meditating, and this three hours to himself has a significant impact on his ability to take on  the  week  ahead.  Since  Tony  believes  that  his  sister  won't  care whether he comes today or tomorrow, he chooses in favor of his mental health.
Of course, that's not the end of the issue. Keiko needs to share her story with Tony, and then, once everything is on the table, together they can figure out what to do. But that will never happen if Keiko simply assumes she knows Tony's story, no matter how certain she is at the outset that she does.

## What's Your Story? (p60)

One way to shift your stance from the easy certainty of feeling that you've thought about this from every possible angle is to get curious about what you don't know about yourself. This may sound like an odd thing to worry about. After all, you're with yourself all the time; wouldn't you be pretty familiar with your own perspective?
In  a  word,  no.  The  process  by  which  we  construct  our  stories about the world often happens so fast, and so automatically, that we are not even aware of all that influences our views. For example, when we saw what Jack was really thinking and feeling during his conversation with Michael, there was nothing about the heat being turned off, or about his wife's anger at canceling their dinner plans. Even Jack wasn't fully aware of all the information behind his reactions.
And  what  implicit  rules  are  important  to  him?  Jack  thinks  to himself, 'I can't believe the way Michael treated me,' but he is un-
aware that this is based on an implicit rule of how people 'should' treat  each  other.  Jack's  rule  is  something  like  'You  should  always show appreciation to others no matter what.' Many of us agree with this  rule,  but  it  is  not  a  truth,  just  a  rule.  Michael's  rule  might  be 'Good friends can get angry with each other and not take it personally.' The point isn't whose rule is better; the point is that they are different. But Jack won't know they're different unless he first considers what rules underlie his own story about what happened.
Recall the story of Andrew and his Uncle Doug at the parade. We  referred  to  Andrew  as  'truck  obsessed.'  This  description  is from his uncle's point of view. Uncle Doug is aware of 'how Andrew is,' but he is less aware of how he himself 'is.' Andrew is truck obsessed if we use as the baseline his Uncle Doug's level of interest in trucks, which is zero. But from Andrew's point of view, Uncle Doug might be considered 'cheerleader obsessed.' Among the four-yearold crowd, Andrew's view is more likely the norm.

## Embrace Both Stories: Adopt the 'And Stance' (p61)

It  can  be  awfully  hard  to  stay  curious  about  another  person's  story when you have your own story to tell, especially if you're thinking that only one story can really be right. After all, your story is so different from theirs, and makes so much sense to you. Part of the stress of staying curious can be relieved by adopting what we call the 'And Stance.'
We usually assume that we must either accept or reject the other person's  story,  and  that  if  we  accept  theirs,  we  must  abandon  our own. But who's right between Michael and Jack, Ollie and Thelma, or Bonnie and her boss, Caroline? Who's right between a person who likes to sleep with the window open and another who prefers the window closed?
The answer is that the question makes no sense. Don't choose between the stories; embrace both. That's the And Stance.
The suggestion to embrace both stories can sound like double-
talk. It can be heard as 'Pretend both of your stories are right.' But in fact,  it  suggests  something  quite  different.  Don't  pretend  anything. Don't  worry  about  accepting  or  rejecting  the  other  person's  story. First work to understand it. The mere act of understanding someone else's story doesn't require you to give up your own. The And Stance allows you to recognize that how you each see things matters, that how you each feel matters. Regardless of what you end up doing, regardless of whether your story influences theirs or theirs yours, both stories matter.
The And Stance is based on the assumption that  the  world  is complex, that you can feel hurt, angry, and wronged, and they can feel just as hurt, angry, and wronged. They can be doing their best, and you  can  think  that  it's  not  good  enough.  You  may  have  done something stupid, and they will have contributed in important ways to the problem as well. You can feel furious with them, and you can also feel love and appreciation for them.
The And Stance gives you a place from which to assert the full strength of your views and feelings without having to diminish the views and feelings of someone else. Likewise, you don't need to give up anything to hear how someone else feels or sees things differently. Because you may have different information or different interpretations, both stories can make sense at the same time.
It may be that as you share them, your stories change in response to new information or different perspectives. But they still may not end up the same, and that's all right. Sometimes people have honest disagreements, but even so, the most useful question is not 'Who's right?' but 'Now that we really understand each other, what's a good way to manage this problem?'

## Two Exceptions That Aren't (p62)

You may be thinking that the advice to shift from certainty and arguing to curiosity and the And Stance generally makes sense, but that there must be exceptions. Let's look at two important questions that
may look like exceptions, but aren't: (1) What about times when I absolutely know I'm right? and (2) Does the suggestion to 'understand the other person's story' always apply, even when, for example, I'm firing or breaking up with someone?

## I Really Am Right (p63)

There's an old story of two clerics arguing about how to do God's work. In the spirit of conciliation, one finally says to the other, 'You and I see things differently, and that's okay. We don't need to agree. You can do God's work your way, and I'll do God's work His way.'
The tendency to think this way can be overwhelming. Even if you understand another person's story with genuine insight and empathy, you may still stumble on the next step, thinking that however much their story makes sense to them, you are still 'right' and they are still 'wrong.'
For  example,  what  about  the  conversation  you  have  with  your daughter about her smoking? You know you are right that smoking is bad for her, that the sooner she stops the better.
Fair enough. About each of those things, you are right. But here's the rub: that's not what the conversation is really about. It's about how you  each  feel  about  your  daughter's  smoking,  what  she  should  do about it, and what role you should play. It's about the terrible fear and sadness you feel as you imagine her becoming sick, and your rage at feeling powerless to make her stop. It's about her need to feel independent, to break out of the 'good girl' mold that feels so suffocating. It's about her own ambivalence doing something that makes her feel good and at the same time truly frightens her. The conversation is about many issues between the two of you that are complex and important to explore. It is not about the truth of whether smoking is bad for one's health. Both of you already agree on that.
Even when it seems the dispute is about what's true, you may find that being the one who's right doesn't get you very far. Your friend may deny that he is an alcoholic and that his drinking is affecting his
marriage. But even if the whole world agrees with your assessment, asserting that you are right and trying to get him to admit it probably won't help you help your friend.
What may help is to tell him about the impact his drinking has on you, and, further, to try to understand his story. What is keeping him in denial? What would it mean to him to admit he has a problem? What gets in the way? Until you understand his story, and share yours with him, you can't help him find a way to rewrite the next chapter for the better. In this case, you may be right and your friend may be wrong, but merely being right doesn't do you much good.

## Giving Bad News (p64)

What if you have to fire someone, end a relationship, or let a supplier know you're cutting back on orders by 80 percent? In many difficult conversations, you don't have the power to impose an outcome unilaterally.  When  firing  someone  or  breaking  up  or  reducing  orders, you  do.  In  such  situations,  it's  reasonable  to  wonder  whether  the other person's story is still relevant.
Most of the difficulty in firing someone or in breaking up takes place in the Feelings and Identity Conversations, which we'll explore later.  But  the  question  of  differing  perspectives  is  also  important. Remember, understanding the other person's story doesn't mean you have to agree with it, nor does it require you to give up your own. And  the  fact  that  you  are  willing  to  try  to  understand  their  view doesn't  diminish  the  power  you  have  to  implement  your  decision, and to be clear that your decision is final.
In fact, the And Stance is probably the most powerful place to stand when engaging in a difficult conversation that requires you to deliver or enforce bad news. If you are breaking up with someone, it allows  you  to  say  'I'm  breaking  up  with  you  because  it's  the  right thing for me [here's why], and I understand how hurt you are, and that you think we should try again, and I'm not changing my mind, and I understand that you think I should have been more clear about my confusion earlier, and I don't think that makes me a bad person,
and I understand that I've done things that have hurt you, and I know you've done things that have hurt me, and I know I might regret this decision, and I'm still making it. . . . And, and, and .'
'And' helps you to be curious and clear.

## To Move Forward, First Understand Where You Are (p65)

As you head down the path of improving how you deal with difficult conversations, you will notice that the question of how we each make sense of our worlds follows you like the moon in the night sky. It's a beacon you can return to no matter where you are or with what difficult problem you are grappling.
Coming  to  understand  the  other  person,  and  yourself,  more deeply doesn't mean that differences will disappear or that you won't have to solve real problems and make real choices. It doesn't mean that all views are equally valid or that it's wrong to have strongly held beliefs. It will, however, help you evaluate whether your strong views make sense in light of new information and different interpretations, and  it  will  help  you  help  others  to  appreciate  the  power  of  those views.
Wherever you want to go, understanding -imagining yourself into the other person's story - has got to be your first step. Before you can figure out how to move forward, you need to understand where you are.
The next two chapters delve more deeply into two problematic aspects  of  our  story - our  tendency  to  misunderstand  their  intentions, and our tendency to focus on blame.

## Don't Assume They Meant It: Disentangle Intent from Impact (p66)

The  question  of  who  intended  what  is  central  to  our  story  about what's  happening  in  a  difficult  situation.  Intentions  strongly  influence our judgments of others: If someone intended to hurt us, we judge them more harshly than if they hurt us by mistake. We're willing  to  be  inconvenienced  by  someone if  they  have  a  good  reason; we're irritated  if  we  think  they  just  don't  care  about  the  impact  of their actions on us. Though either blocks our way just as surely, we react differently to an ambulance double-parked on a narrow street than we do to a BMW.

## The Battle Over Intentions (p66)

Consider the story of Lori and Leo, who have been in a relationship for  two  years  and  have  a  recurring  fight  that  is  painful  to  both  of them. The couple was at a party thrown by some friends, and Lori was about to reach for another scoop of ice cream, when Leo said, 'Lori, why don't you lay off the ice cream?' Lori, who struggles with her weight, shot Leo a nasty look, and the two avoided each other for a while. Later that evening things went from bad to worse:
Lori: I really resented it at the party, the way you treated me in front of our friends.
Leo: The way I treated you? What are you talking about?
Lori: About  the  ice  cream.  You  act  like  you're  my  father  or something.  You  have  this  need  to  control  me  or  put  me down.
Leo: Lori, I wasn't trying to hurt you. You said you were on a diet, and I'm just trying to help you stick to it. You're so defensive. You hear everything as an attack on you, even when I'm trying to help.
Lori: Help!? Humiliating me in front of my friends is your idea of helping?
Leo: You know, I just can't win with you. If I say something, you think  I'm  trying  humiliate  you,  and  if  I  don't,  you  ask  me why I let you overeat. I am so sick of this. Sometimes I wonder whether you don't start these fights on purpose.
This conversation left both Lori and Leo feeling angry, hurt, and misunderstood. What's worse, it's a conversation they have over and over again. They are engaged in a classic battle over intentions: Lori accuses Leo of hurting her on purpose, and Leo denies it. They are caught  in  a  cycle  they  don't  understand  and  don't  know  how  to break.

## Two Key Mistakes (p67)

There is a way out. Two crucial mistakes in this conversation make it  infinitely  more  difficult  than  it  needs  to  be - one  by  Lori  and one by Leo. When Lori says 'You have this need to control me or put me down,' she is talking about Leo's intentions. Her mistake is to assume she knows what Leo's intentions are, when in fact she doesn't. It's  an easy - and debilitating - mistake to make. And we do it all the time.
Leo's mistake is to assume that once he clarifies that his intentions  were  good,  Lori  is  no  longer  justified  in  being  upset.  He  explains that he 'wasn't trying to hurt' Lori, that in fact he was trying to help. And having explained this, he thinks that should be the end of
it.  As  a  result,  he  doesn't  take  the  time  to  learn  what  Lori  is  really feeling or why. This mistake, too, is as common as it is crippling.
Fortunately, with some awareness, both mistakes can be avoided.

## The First Mistake: Our Assumptions About Intentions Are Often Wrong (p68)

Exploring 'Lori's mistake' requires us to understand how our minds work when devising stories about what others intend, and to learn to recognize the set of questionable assumptions upon which these stories are built. Here's the problem: While we care deeply about other people's intentions toward us, we don't actually know what their intentions are. We can't. Other people's intentions exist only in their hearts and minds. They are invisible to us. However real and right our assumptions about other people's intentions may seem to us, they are often incomplete or just plain wrong.

## We Assume Intentions from the Impact on Us (p68)

Much of the first mistake can be traced to one basic error: we make an attribution about another person's intentions based on the impact of their actions on us. We feel hurt; therefore they intended to hurt us. We feel slighted; therefore they intended to slight us. Our thinking is so automatic that we aren't even aware that our conclusion is only  an  assumption.  We  are  so  taken  in  by  our  story  about  what they intended that we can't imagine how they could have intended anything else.
We Assume the Worst. The conclusions we draw about intentions based on the impact of others' actions on us are rarely charitable. When a friend shows up late to the movie, we don't think, 'Gee, I'll bet he ran into someone in need.' More likely we think, 'Jerk. He doesn't  care  about  making  me  miss  the  beginning  of  the  movie.'
When we've been hurt by someone else's behavior, we assume the worst.
Margaret fell into this pattern. She had had her hip operated on by a prominent surgeon, a man she found gruff and hard to talk to. When Margaret hobbled in for her first appointment after surgery, the receptionist told her that the doctor had unexpectedly extended his vacation. Angry, Margaret imagined her wealthy doctor cavorting in the Caribbean with his wife or girlfriend, too self-important and inconsiderate to return on schedule. The picture compounded her anger.
When Margaret  finally  saw  the  doctor  a  week  later,  she  asked curtly how his vacation had been. He responded that it had been wonderful. 'I'll bet,' she said, wondering whether to raise her concerns. But the doctor went on: 'It was a working vacation. I was helping set up a hospital in Bosnia. The conditions there are just horrendous.'
Learning what the doctor was really doing didn't erase the inconvenience Margaret had endured. Yet knowing that he was not acting out of selfishness, but from an unrelated and generous motivation, left Margaret feeling substantially better about having to wait the extra week.
We attribute intentions to others all the time. With business and even personal relationships increasingly conducted via e-mail, voice mail, faxes, and conference calls, we often have to read between the lines to figure out what people really mean. When a customer writes 'I don't suppose you've gotten to my order yet . . . ,' is he being sarcastic? Is he angry? Or is he trying to tell you that he knows you're busy?  Without  tone  of  voice  to  guide  us,  it  is  easy  to  assume  the worst.
We  Treat  Ourselves  More  Charitably. What's  ironic - and all  too  human - about our tendency to attribute bad intentions to others is how differently we treat ourselves. When your husband forgets to pick up the dry cleaning, he's irresponsible. When you forget to book the airline tickets, it's because you're overworked and stressed out.  When  a  coworker  criticizes  your  work  in  front  of  department
colleagues, she is trying to put you down. When you offer suggestions to others in the same meeting, you are trying to be helpful.
When we're the ones acting, we know that much of the time we don't intend to annoy, offend, or upstage others. We're wrapped up in  our  own  worries,  and  are  often  unaware  that  we're  having  any negative impact on others. When we're the ones acted upon, however, our story too easily slides into one about bad intentions and bad character.
Are  There  Never  Bad  Intentions? Of  course,  sometimes  we get hurt because someone meant to hurt us. The person we are dealing with is nasty or inconsiderate, out to make us look bad or steal our best friend. But these situations are rarer than we imagine, and without  hearing  from  the  other  person,  we  can't  really  know  their intentions.

## Getting Their Intentions Wrong Is Costly (p70)

Intentions matter, and guessing wrong is hazardous to your relationships.
We Assume Bad Intentions Mean Bad Character. Perhaps the biggest  danger  of  assuming  the  other  person  had  bad  intentions  is that we easily jump from 'they had bad intentions' to 'they are a bad person.'  We  settle  into  judgments  about  their  character  that  color our view of them and, indeed, affect not only any conversation we might  have,  but  the  entire  relationship.  Once  we  think  we  have someone figured out, we see all of their actions through that lens, and the stakes rise. Even if we don't share our view with them, the impact remains. The worse our view of the other person's character, the easier it is to justify avoiding them or saying nasty things behind their back.
When you find yourself thinking 'That traffic cop is a control freak' or 'My boss is manipulative' or 'My neighbor is impossible,' ask yourself why this is your view. What is it based on? If it's based on
feeling  powerless,  fearing  manipulation,  or  being  frustrated,  notice that your conclusion is based solely on the impact of their behavior on you-which is not a sufficient basis to be sure of someone else's intentions or character.
Accusing Them of Bad Intentions Creates Defensiveness. Our assumptions about other people's intentions can also have a significant  impact  on  our  conversations.  The  easiest  and  most  common way of expressing these assumptions is with an accusatory question: 'How come you wanted to hurt me?' 'Why do you ignore me like this?' 'What have I done that makes you feel it's okay to step all over me?'
We think we are sharing our hurt, frustration, anger, or confusion. We are trying to begin a conversation that will end in greater understanding,  perhaps  some  improved  behavior,  and  maybe  an apology. What they think we are doing is trying to provoke, accuse, or malign them. (In other words, they make the same mistaken leap in judging our intentions.) And given how frequently our assumptions are  incomplete  or  wrong,  the  other  person  often  feels  not  just  accused, but falsely accused. Few things are more aggravating.
We should not be surprised, then, that they try to defend themselves, or attack back. From their point of view, they are defending themselves from false accusations. From our point of view, they are just being defensive - we're right, they just aren't big enough to admit it. The result is a mess. No one learns anything, no one apologizes, nothing changes.
Lori and Leo fall right into this. Leo is defensive throughout, and at the end, when he says that he sometimes wonders if Lori 'starts these fights on purpose,' he actually accuses Lori of bad intentions. And thus begins a cycle of accusation. If interviewed about their conversation afterward, both Lori and Leo would report that they were the victim of the other's bad intentions. Each would claim that their own statements were made in self-defense. Those are the two classic characteristics  of  the  cycle:  both  parties  think  they  are  the  victim, and both think they are acting only to defend themselves. This is how well-intentioned people get themselves into trouble.
Attributions  Can  Become  Self-Fulfilling. Our  assumptions about the other person's intentions often come true, even when they aren't true to begin with. You think your boss isn't giving you enough responsibility. You assume that this is because she doesn't trust you to do the work well. You feel demotivated by this state of affairs, figuring that nothing you do will change your boss's mind. Your work suffers, and your boss, who hadn't been concerned about your work before, is now quite worried. So she gives you even less responsibility than before.
When we think others have bad intentions toward us, it affects our behavior. And, in turn, how we behave affects how they treat us. Before  we  know  it,  our  assumption  that  they  have  bad  intentions toward us has come true.

## The Second Mistake: Good Intentions Don't Sanitize Bad Impact (p72)

As we've seen, the mistake Lori makes of assuming she knows Leo's intentions, though seemingly small, has big consequences. Now let's come back to Leo, who makes an equally costly error in the conversation. He assumes that because he had good intentions, Lori should not feel hurt. The thinking goes like this: 'You said I meant to hurt you. I have now clarified that I didn't. So you should now feel fine, and if you don't, that's your problem.'

## We Don't Hear What They Are Really Trying to Say (p72)

The problem with focusing only on clarifying our intentions is that we end up missing significant pieces of what the other person is trying to say. When they say, 'Why were you trying to hurt me?' they are really communicating two separate messages: first, 'I know what you intended,' and, second, 'I got hurt.' When we are the person accused,  we  focus  only  on  the  first  message  and  ignore  the  second. Why? Because we feel the need to defend ourselves. Because Leo
is  so  busy  defending  himself,  he  fails  to  hear  that  Lori  is  hurt.  He doesn't take in what this all means to her, how hurt she is, or why these issues are so painful.
Working to understand what the other person is really saying is particularly important because when someone says 'You intended to hurt me' that isn't quite what they mean. A literal focus on intentions ends up clouding the conversation. Often we say 'You intended to hurt me' when what we really mean is 'You don't care enough about me.' This is an important distinction.
The father who is too busy at work to attend his son's basketball game doesn't intend to hurt his son. He would prefer not to hurt his son. But his desire not to hurt his son is not as strong as his desire or need to work. Most of us on the receiving end make little distinction between 'He wanted to hurt me' and 'He didn't want to hurt me, but he didn't make me a priority.' Either way, it hurts. If the father responds to his son's complaint by saying 'I didn't intend to hurt you,' he's  not  addressing  his  son's  real  concern:  'You  may  not  have  intended to hurt me, but you knew you were hurting me, and you did it anyway.'
It is useful to attempt to clarify your intentions. The question is when. If you do it at the beginning of the conversation, you are likely doing  it  without  fully  understanding  what  the  other  person  really means to express.

## We Ignore the Complexity of Human Motivations (p73)

Another problem with assuming that good intentions sanitize a negative  impact  is  that  intentions  are  often  more  complex  than  just 'good' or 'bad.' Are Leo's intentions purely angelic? Is he just trying to  help  Lori  with  her  diet?  Perhaps  he  himself  is  embarrassed  by Lori's tendency to overeat and felt compelled to say something. Or maybe he wants her to lose weight not so much for herself, but for him. If he really cares about her, as he says he does, shouldn't he be more aware of how his words affect her?
As is so often the case, Leo's intentions are probably mixed. He
may not even be fully aware of what is actually motivating him. But the answer to the question of what is truly motivating Leo is less important than his willingness to ask the question and look for an answer. If his first response to Lori is 'No, I had good intentions,' then he is putting up a barrier to any learning he might get from the conversation. And he is sending a message to Lori that says, 'I'm more interested in defending myself than I am in investigating the complexities of what might be going on for me in our relationship.'
Interestingly, when people take on the job of thinking hard about their  own intentions, it  sends  a  profoundly  positive  message  to  the other  person  about  the  importance  of  the  relationship.  After  all, you'd  only  do  that  kind  of  hard  work  for  somebody  who  matters to you.

## We Aggravate Hostility - Especially Between Groups (p74)

This dynamic of attributing intentions, defending ourselves, and ignoring the impact we've had on others is especially common in conflicts  between groups, whether the groups are union members and management, neighborhood organizations and developers, administrative staff and the professionals they support, or my family and your family. The desire to sanitize impact is especially common in situations  involving  issues  of  'difference,'  like  race,  gender,  or  sexual orientation.
A few years ago a newspaper was experiencing racial strife among its  workers.  African  American  and  Hispanic  reporters  complained about the absence of minority voices at the editorial level, and threatened  to  organize  a  boycott  unless  practices  were  changed.  In  response,  the  executive  editors  met  behind  closed  doors  to  consider what to do. No minority staffers were invited to the meeting. When the minority reporters learned of the meeting, they were outraged. 'They're telling us once again that they don't care what we have to say,' said one reporter.
When one of the white editors heard this, she felt wrongly accused and sought to clarify the intention of the meeting: 'I can see
why you felt excluded. But that wasn't our intention. It was simply a meeting of editors trying to figure out a good next step for how to include minority voices.' The white editor felt that now that her intentions were clarified, the issue of the 'meaning of the meeting' was over. After all, everything was now clear. But it's never that simple. The intentions of the white editors are important. What's also important is that whether or not the intention was to exclude, people felt excluded. And such feelings may take time and thought on everyone's part to work through.

## Avoiding the Two Mistakes (p75)

The good news is that the two mistakes around intentions and impact are avoidable.

## Avoiding the First Mistake: Disentangle Impact and Intent (p75)

How can Lori avoid the mistake of attributing intentions to Leo that he may not have? Her first step is simply to recognize that there is a difference  between  the  impact  of  Leo's  behavior  on  her  and  what Leo intended. She can't get anywhere without disentangling the two.
Separating impact from intentions requires us to be aware of the automatic leap from 'I was hurt' to 'You intended to hurt me.' You can make this distinction by asking yourself three questions:
Actions: 'What did the other person actually say or do?'
Impact: 'What was the impact of this on me?'
Assumption: 'Based on this  impact,  what  assumption  am  I making about what the other person intended?'
Hold  Your  View  as  a  Hypothesis. Once  you  have  clearly answered these three questions, the next step is to make absolutely
certain  that  you  recognize  that  your  assumption about their intentions  is  just  an assumption.  It is  a guess, a hypothesis.
Your hypothesis is not based on nothing;  you  know  what

## Disentangle Impact and Intent (p76)

was said or done. But as we've seen, this is not a lot of evidence to go on. Your guess might be right and it might be wrong. In fact, your reaction might even say as much about you as it does about what they did. Perhaps you've had a past experience that gives their action special meaning to you. Many people find certain kinds of teasing hostile,  for  example,  because  of  bad  experiences  with  siblings,  while others think of teasing (in moderation) as a way to connect and show affection. Given the stakes, however, you can't afford to level an accusation based on tenuous data.
Share the Impact on You; Inquire About Their Intentions. You can use your answers to the three questions listed above to begin the difficult conversation itself: say what the other person did, tell them what its impact was on you, and explain your assumption about their intentions, taking care to label it as a hypothesis that you are checking rather than asserting to be true.
Consider how this would change the beginning of the conversation between Lori and Leo. Instead of beginning with an accusation, Lori can begin by identifying what Leo said, and what the impact was on her:
Lori: You know when you said, 'Why don't you lay off the ice cream'? Well, I felt hurt by that.
Leo: I  was just trying to help you stay on your diet. Why does that make you upset?
Lori: I felt embarrassed that you said it in front of our friends. Then what I wonder is whether you said it on purpose to embarrass or hurt me. I don't know why you'd want to do that, but that's what I'm thinking when it happens.
Leo: Well, I'm certainly not doing it on purpose. I guess I didn't realize it was so upsetting. I'm confused about what it is you want me to say if I see you going off your diet . . . .
The conversation is only beginning, but it is off to a better start.
Don't  Pretend  You  Don't  Have  a  Hypothesis. Note  that we  aren't  suggesting  you  should  get  rid  of  your  assumptions  about their intentions. That just isn't realistic. Nor do we suggest hiding your view. Instead, recognize your assumptions for what they are - mere guesses subject to modification or disproof. Lori doesn't say 'I have no thoughts on why you said what you said,' or 'I know you didn't mean to  hurt  me.'  That  would  not  be  authentic.  When  you  share  your assumptions about their intentions, simply be clear that you are sharing assumptions -guesses-and that you are sharing them for the purpose of testing whether they make sense to the other person.
Some Defensiveness  Is  Inevitable. Of  course,  no  matter  how skillfully you handle things, you are likely to encounter some defensiveness. The matter of intentions and impacts is complex, and sometimes  the  distinctions  are  fine.  So  it's  best  to  anticipate  a  certain amount of defensiveness, and to be prepared to clarify what you are trying to communicate, and what you are not.
The more you can relieve the other person of the need to defend themselves, the easier it becomes for them to take in what you are saying and to reflect on the complexity of their motivations. For example, you might say, 'I was surprised that you made that comment. It seemed uncharacteristic of you. . . .' Assuming this is true (that it is uncharacteristic),  you  are  giving  some  balance  to  the  information you are bringing to their attention. If there was some malice mixed in with what they said, this balance makes it easier for them to own up to it.

## Avoiding the Second Mistake: Listen for Feelings, and Reflect on Your Intentions (p78)

When we find ourselves  in  Leo's  position - being  accused  of  bad intentions - we have a strong tendency to want to defend ourselves: 'That is not what I intended.' We are defending our intentions and our character. However, as we've seen, starting here leads to trouble.
Listen Past the Accusation for the Feelings. Remember that the accusation about our bad intentions is always made up of two separate ideas: (1) we had bad intentions and (2) the other person was frustrated, hurt, or embarrassed. Don't pretend they aren't saying the first. You'll want to respond to it. But neither should you ignore the second. And if you start by listening and acknowledging the feelings, and then return to the question of intentions, it will make your conversation significantly easier and more constructive.

## Be Open to Reflecting on the Complexity of Your Intentions. (p78)

When it comes time to consider your intentions, try to avoid the tendency to say 'My intentions were pure.' We usually think that about ourselves,  and  sometimes  it's  true.  But  often,  as  we've  seen,  intentions are more complex.
We can imagine how the initial conversation might have gone if Leo followed this advice with Lori:
Lori: I really resented it at the party, the way you treated me in front of our friends.
Leo: The way I treated you? What do you mean?
Lori: About  the  ice  cream.  You  act  like  you're  my  father  or something.  You  have  this  need  to  control  me  or  put  me down.
Leo: Wow. It sounds like what I said really hurt.
Leo: Well, at the time I was thinking that you'd said you were on
a diet, and that maybe I could help you stick to it. But I can see how saying something in front of everyone would be embarrassing. I wonder why I didn't see that?
Lori: Maybe you were embarrassed to have to say something.
Leo: Yeah,  maybe.  I  could  have  seen  you  as  out  of  control, which is a big issue for me.
Lori: That's true. And I probably was a little out of control.
Leo: Anyway,  I'm  sorry.  I  don't  like  hurting  you.  Let's  think about what I should do or say, if anything, in situations like that.
Understanding  how  we  distort  others'  intentions,  making  difficult conversations even more difficult, is crucial to untangling what happened  between  us.  However,  there's  still  one  more  piece  to  the 'What Happened?' Conversation that can get us into trouble - the question of who is to blame.

## 4 (p80)


## Abandon Blame: (p80)


## Map the Contribution System (p80)

The ad agency you work for flies you to Boulder to pitch executives at ExtremeSport , a burgeoning sportswear company and a potentially important client.  You  turn  to  begin  your  presentation,  only  to  discover that you've got the wrong storyboards. Right client, wrong campaign.  Shaken,  you  stumble  through  an  unfocused  talk.  With  one slip, your assistant, who packs your briefcase, has undermined weeks of hard work.

## In Our Story, Blame Seems Clear (p80)

You blame your assistant, not just because she's a convenient target for your frustration or because letting others know it was she and not you who screwed up may help salvage your reputation, but because it is the simple truth: this was her fault.
When you and your assistant finally  discuss  what  went  wrong, you can take one of two approaches. You can blame her explicitly, saying something like 'I don't know how you could have let this happen!' Or, if you tend to be less confrontational (or have been taught that blaming people isn't helpful), you can blame her implicitly, with something less threatening, like 'Let's do better next time.' Either way, she'll get the message: she's to blame.

## We're Caught in Blame's Web (p81)

Blame is a prominent issue in many difficult conversations. Whether on the surface or below, the conversation revolves around the question of who is to blame. Who is the bad person in this relationship? Who  made  the  mistake?  Who  should  apologize?  Who  gets  to  be righteously indignant?
Focusing on blame is a bad idea. Not because it's hard to talk about. Nor because it can injure relationships and cause pain and anxiety. Many subjects are hard to discuss and have potentially negative side effects and are nonetheless important to address.
Focusing on blame is a bad idea because it inhibits our ability to learn what's really causing the problem and to do anything meaningful  to  correct  it. And because blame is often irrelevant  and  unfair. The urge to blame is based, quite literally, on a misunderstanding of what has given rise to the issues between you and the other person, and on the fear of being blamed. Too often, blaming also serves as a bad proxy for talking directly about hurt feelings.
But  the  advice  'Don't  blame  others'  is  no  answer.  You  can't move away from blame until you understand what blame is, what motivates us to want to blame each other, and how to move toward something else that will better serve your purposes in difficult conversations. That something else is the concept of contribution. The distinction  between  blame  and  contribution  is  not  always  easy  to grasp, but it is essential to improving your ability to handle difficult conversations well.

## Distinguish Blame from Contribution (p81)

At heart, blame is about judging and contribution is about understanding.

## Blame Is About Judging, and Looks Backward (p82)

When we ask the question 'Who is to blame?' we are really asking three questions in one. First, did this person cause the problem? Did your  assistant's  actions  (or  inaction)  cause  you  to  have  the  wrong storyboards? Second, if so, how should her actions be judged against some standard of conduct? Was she incompetent, unreasonable, unethical? And third, if the judgment is negative, how should she be punished? Will she be yelled at? Warned? Perhaps even fired?
When we say 'This was your fault,' it is shorthand for giving condemning answers to all three questions. We mean not only that you caused this, but that you did something bad and should be punished. It's  no  wonder  that  blame  is  such  a  loaded  issue,  and  that  we  are quick to defend ourselves when we sense its approach.
When  blame  is  in  play,  you  can  expect  defensiveness,  strong emotion, interruptions, and arguments about what 'good assistants,' 'loving spouses,' or 'any reasonable person' should or shouldn't do. When we blame someone, we are offering them the role of 'the accused,' so they do what accused people do: they defend themselves any way they can. Given what's at stake, it's easy to see why the dance of mutual finger-pointing often turns nasty.

## Contribution Is About Understanding, and Looks Forward (p82)

Contribution asks a related but different set of questions. The first question is 'How did we each contribute to bringing about the current situation?' Or put another way: 'What did we each do or not do to  get  ourselves  into  this  mess?'  The  second  question  is  'Having identified the contribution system, how can we change it? What can we do about it  as  we  go  forward?'  In  short,  contribution  is  useful when our goal is to understand what actually happened so that we can improve how we work together in the future. In the worlds of both business and personal relationships, too often we deal in blame when our real goals are understanding and change.
To illustrate, let's return to the ExtremeSport story and imagine two contrasting conversations between you and your assistant. The first conversation focuses on blame, the second on contribution.
You : I wanted to talk to you about my presentation at ExtremeSport . You packed the wrong storyboards. The situation was unbelievably awkward, and made me look terrible. We simply can't work this way.
Assistant : I heard. I'm so sorry. I just, well, you probably don't want to hear my excuses.
You : I just don't understand how you could let this happen.
You : I  know you didn't do it on purpose, and I know you feel bad, but I don't want this to happen again. You understand what I'm saying?
All  three  elements  of  blame  are  present:  you  caused  this,  I'm judging you negatively, and implicit in what I am saying is that one way or another you will be punished, especially if it happens again.
In  contrast,  a  conversation  about  contribution  might  sound like this:
You : I wanted to talk to you about my presentation at ExtremeSport . When I arrived I found the wrong storyboards in my briefcase.
Assistant : I heard. I'm so sorry. I feel terrible.
You : I appreciate that. I'm feeling bad too. Let's retrace our steps and think about how this happened. I suspect we may each have contributed to the problem. From your point of view, did I do anything differently this time?
Assistant : I'm not sure. We were working on three accounts at once,  and  on  the  one  just  before  this  one,  when  I  asked about  which  boards  you  wanted  packed,  you  got  angry.  I know it is my responsibility to know which boards you want, but sometimes when things get hectic, it can get confusing.
You : If you're unsure, you should always ask. But it sounds like you're saying I don't always make it easy to do that.
Assistant : Well,  I  do  feel  intimidated  sometimes.  When  you get really busy, it's like you don't want to be bothered. The day you left you were in that kind of mood. I was trying to stay  out  of  your  way,  because  I  didn't  want  to  add  to  your frustration. I had planned to double-check which boards you wanted when you got off the phone, but then I had to run to the copy center. After you left I remembered, but I knew you usually  double-checked  your  briefcase,  so  I  figured  it  was okay.
You : Yeah,  I  do  usually  double-check,  but  this  time  I  was  so overwhelmed I forgot. I think we'd both better double-check every time. And I do get in those moods. I know it can be hard to interact with me when I'm like that. I need to work on  being  less  impatient  and  abrupt.  But  if  you're  unsure, I  need  you  to  ask  questions  no  matter  what  kind  of  mood I'm in.
Assistant : So you want me to ask questions even if I think it will annoy you?
You : Yes, although I'll try to be less irritable. Can you do that?
Assistant : Well, talking about it like this makes it easier. I realize it's important.
You : You  can  even  refer  to  this  conversation.  You  can  say,  'I know you're under pressure, but you made me promise I'd ask this . . . .' Or just say, 'Hey, you promised not to be such a jerk!'
Assistant : [laughs] Okay, that works for me.
You : And  we  might  also  think  about  how  you  could  track better  which  appointments  are  going  to  be  for  which campaigns. . . .
In the second conversation, you and your assistant have begun to identify the contributions that you each brought to the problem, and the ways in which each of your reactions are part of an overall pattern: You feel anxious and distracted about an upcoming presenta-
tion,  and  snap  at  your  assistant.  She  assumes  you  want  her  out  of your  way,  and  withdraws.  Something  falls  through  the  cracks,  and then you are even more annoyed and worried the next time you are preparing, since you're no longer sure you can trust your assistant to help  you.  So  you  become  more  abrupt,  increasingly  unapproachable, and the communication between you continues to erode. Mistakes multiply.
As  you  get  a  handle  on  the  interactive  system  the  two  of  you have created, you can see what you each need to do to avoid or alter that  system  in  the  future.  As  a  result,  this  second  conversation  is much more likely than the first to produce lasting change in the way you work together. Indeed, the first conversation runs the risk of reinforcing the problem. Since part of the system is that your assistant feels  discouraged  from  talking  to  you  because  she  fears  provoking your anger, a conversation about blame is likely to make that tendency worse, not better. If you go that way, she'll eventually conclude that  you're  impossible  to  work  with,  and  you'll  report  that  she's incompetent.

## Contribution Is Joint and Interactive (p85)

Focusing on the contributions of both the boss and the assistant seeking understanding rather than judgment - is critical. This is not just  good  practice,  it  accords  more  closely  with  reality.  As  a  rule, when things  go  wrong  in  human  relationships,  everyone  has  contributed in some important way.
Of course, this is not how we usually experience contribution. A common distortion is to see contribution as singular - that what has gone wrong is either entirely our fault or (more often) entirely theirs.
Only in a B movie is it that simple. In real life causation is almost always  more  complex.  A  contribution system is  present,  and  that system  includes  inputs  from  both  people.  Think  about  a  baseball pitcher facing a batter. If the batter strikes out in a crucial situation, he might explain that he wasn't seeing well, that his wrist injury was still bothering him, or perhaps that he simply failed to come through
in the clutch. The pitcher, however, might describe the strikeout by saying, 'I knew he was thinking curve, so I came in with a high fastball,' or, 'I was in a zone. I knew I had him before he even got in the batter's box.'
Who is right,  the  batter  or  the  pitcher?  Of  course,  the  answer is  both,  at  least  in  part.  Whether  the  batter  strikes  out  or  hits  a home run is a result of the interaction between the batter and the pitcher. Depending on your perspective, you might focus on the actions of one or the other, but the actions of both are required for the outcome.
It's  the  same  in  difficult  conversations.  Other  than  in  extreme cases, such as child abuse, almost every situation that gives rise to a conversation is the result of a joint contribution system. Focusing on only one or the other of the contributors obscures rather than illuminates that system.

## The Costs of the Blame Frame (p86)

There are situations in which focusing on blame is not only important,  but  essential.  Our  legal  system  is  set  up  to  apportion  blame, both  in  the  criminal  and  civil  courts.  Assigning  blame  publicly, against clearly articulated legal or moral standards, tells people what is expected of them and allows society to exercise justice.

## When Blame Is the Goal, Understanding Is the Casualty (p86)

But even in situations that require a clear assignment of blame, there is a cost. Once the specter of punishment - legal or otherwise - is raised, learning the truth about what happened becomes more difficult. People are understandably less forthcoming, less open, less willing  to  apologize.  After  a  car  accident,  for  example,  an  automaker expecting to be sued may resist making safety improvements for fear it will seem an admission that the company should have done something before the accident.
'Truth commissions' often are created because of this trade-off between  assigning  blame  and  gaining  an  understanding  of  what really happened. A truth commission offers clemency in return for honesty.  In  South  Africa,  for  example,  it  is  unlikely  that  so  much would  now  be  known  about  past  abuses  under  the  apartheid  system if criminal investigations and trials had been the only means of discovery.

## Focusing on Blame Hinders Problem-Solving (p87)

When the dog disappears, who's to blame? The person who opened the gate or the one who failed to grab her collar? Should we argue about that or look for the dog? When the tub overflows and ruins the living  room  ceiling  below,  should  we  blame  the  forgetful  bather? The  spouse  who  called  the  bather  downstairs?  The  manufacturer who designed an overflow drain that is too small? The plumber who failed to mention it? The answer to who contributed to the problem is all of the above. When your real goal is finding the dog, fixing the ceiling,  and  preventing  such  incidents  in  the  future,  focusing  on blame is a waste of time. It neither helps you understand the problem looking back, nor helps you fix it going forward.

## Blame Can Leave a Bad System Undiscovered (p87)

Even if  punishment  seems  appropriate,  using  it  as  a  substitute  for really figuring out what went wrong and why is a disaster. The VP of Commodity Corp. championed the decision to build a new manufacturing plant as a way to increase profits. However, not only did the plant fail to increase profits, but the resulting increase in market supply actually brought profits down. At the time of the original decision to build the plant, several people privately predicted this, but didn't speak up.
To address  the  situation,  the  VP  was  fired  and  a  new  strategic planner was brought on board. By removing the person who made
the bad decision and replacing him with someone 'better,' it was assumed that the management issue was now fixed. But while the company  had  changed  one  'part'  in  the  contribution  system,  it  had failed to look at the system as a whole. Why did those who predicted failure keep silent? Were there implicit incentives that encouraged this? What structures, policies, and processes continue to allow poor decisions, and what would it take to change them?
Removing one player in a system is sometimes warranted. But the cost of doing so as a substitute for the hard work of examining the larger contribution system is often surprisingly high.

## The Benefits of Understanding Contribution (p88)

Fundamentally,  using  the  blame  frame  makes  conversations  more difficult, while understanding the contribution system makes a difficult conversation easier and more likely to be productive.

## Contribution Is Easier to Raise (p88)

Joseph runs an overseas office for a multinational corporation. His greatest frustration comes from headquarters' unwillingness or inability to communicate with him effectively. Joseph doesn't hear about policy  changes  until  after  they're  made,  and  is  often  informed  by clients (or in one case, the newspaper!) about work his own firm is doing in his region. Joseph decides to raise the matter with the home office.
Before he does, one of Joseph's managers points out Joseph's own role in the problem. Joseph installed a computer system incompatible with the one at headquarters. And he rarely takes the initiative to ask the kinds of questions he probably should. Unfortunately, instead of seeing his own contributions as part of the whole system, Joseph falls  into  the  blame  frame and begins to wonder whether the fault really lies with him rather than with headquarters. He doesn't raise the issue after all, and his frustration continues.
The blame frame creates a difficult burden. You have to feel confident that others are at fault, and that you aren't, to feel justified in raising an issue. And since, as we've described, there are always ways in which you've contributed, you're likely to end up failing to raise important issues. That would be a shame, because you'll lose the opportunity to understand why communication between you isn't working well, and how it might be improved.

## Contribution Encourages Learning and Change (p89)

Imagine a couple confronting the wife's infidelity. Accusations fly as questions  of  blame  are  raised.  After  much  anguish,  the  husband chooses to stay in the marriage under the condition that such infidelity never happen again. There is an apparent resolution, but what has each person learned from the experience?
As one-sided as an affair may seem, it often involves some contribution from both partners. Unless these contributions are sorted out, the problems and patterns in the marriage that gave rise to the affair will continue to cause difficulty. Some questions need to be asked: Does the husband listen to his wife? Does he stay at work late? Was his wife feeling sad, lonely, undesirable? If so, why?
And to understand the system, the couple then needs to follow up with more questions: If the husband doesn't listen to his wife, what's she doing to contribute to that? What does she say or do that encourages him to shut down or withdraw? Does she work every weekend, or  withdraw  when  she's  feeling  upset?  How  does  their  relationship work? If the factors that contributed to the infidelity are to be understood and addressed, these questions must be explored - the contribution system must be mapped.

## Three Misconceptions About Contribution (p89)

Three common misunderstandings can keep people from fully embracing or benefiting from the concept of contribution.

## Misconception #1: I Should Focus Only on My Contribution (p90)

Advice that you should search for joint contribution to a problem is sometimes heard as 'You should overlook the other person's contribution and focus on your own.' This is a mistake. Finding your contribution doesn't in any way negate the other person's contribution. It has taken both of you to get into this mess. It will probably take both of you to get out.
Recognizing  that  everyone  involved  in  a  situation  has  contributed to the problem doesn't mean that everyone has contributed equally.  You  can  be  5  percent  responsible  or  95  percent  responsible -there is still joint contribution. Of course, quantifying contribution is not easy, and in most cases not very helpful. Understanding is the goal, not assigning percentages.

## Misconception #2: Putting Aside Blame Means Putting Aside My Feelings (p90)

Seeking to understand the contribution system rather than focusing on  blame  doesn't  mean  putting  aside  strong  emotions.  Quite  the contrary. As you and the other person look at how you have each contributed to the problem, sharing your feelings is essential.
Indeed, the very impulse to blame is often stimulated by strong emotions that lie unexpressed. When you learn of your wife's infidelity, you want to say, 'You are responsible for ruining our marriage! How could you do something so stupid and hurtful?!' Here, you are focusing on blame as a proxy for your feelings. Speaking more directly about your strong feelings -'I feel devastated by what you did' or 'My ability to trust you has been shattered'- actually reduces the impulse to blame. Over time, as you look ahead, it frees you to talk more comfortably and productively in terms of contribution.
If you find yourself mired in a continuing urge to blame, or with an  unceasing  desire  for  the  other  person  to  admit  that  they  were
wrong, you may find some relief by asking yourself: 'What feelings am I failing to express?' and 'Has the other person acknowledged my feelings?' As you explore this terrain, you may find yourself naturally shifting from a blame frame to a contribution frame. You may learn that  what  you  really  seek  is  understanding  and  acknowledgment. What you want the other person to say isn't 'It was my fault,' but rather 'I understand that I hurt you and I'm sorry.' The first statement is about judgment, the second about understanding.

## Misconception #3: Exploring Contribution Means 'Blaming the Victim' (p91)

When someone blames the victim, they are suggesting that the victim 'brought it on themselves,' that they deserved or even wanted to be victimized. This is often terribly unfair and painful for both the victim and others.
Looking for joint contribution is not about blame of any kind. Imagine that you are mugged while walking alone down a dark street late  at  night.  Blame  asks:  'Did  you  do  something wrong? Did you break the law? Did you act immorally? Should you be punished?' The answer to all of these questions is no. You didn't do anything wrong; you didn't deserve to be mugged. Being mugged was not your fault.
Contribution asks a different set of questions. Contribution asks: 'What did I do that helped cause the situation?' You can find contribution even in situations where you carry no blame; you did contribute to being mugged. How? By choosing to walk alone at night. If you'd  been  somewhere  else,  or  in  a  group,  getting  mugged  would have been less likely. If we are looking to punish someone for what happened, we would punish the mugger. If we are looking to help you feel empowered in the world, we would encourage you to find your contribution. You may not be able to change other people's contributions, but you can often change your own.
In his autobiography, A Long Walk to Freedom , Nelson Mandela provides an example of how people who have been overwhelmingly
victimized can still seek to understand their own contribution to their problems. He describes how he learned this from an Afrikaner:
Reverend  Andre  Scheffer  was  a  minister  of  the  Dutch  Reformed Mission Church in Africa. . . .  He  had  a  dry  sense  of  humor  and liked to poke fun at us. 'You know,' he would say, 'the white man has a more difficult task than the black man in this country. Whenever there is a problem, we [white men] have to find a solution. But whenever you blacks have a problem, you have an excuse. You can simply say, 'Ingabilungu,' ' . . . . a Xhosa expression that means, 'It is the whites.'
He was saying that we could always blame all of our troubles on the white man. His message was that we must also look within ourselves  and  become  responsible  for  our  actions - sentiments  with which I wholeheartedly agreed.
Mandela does not believe blacks are to blame for their situation. He does believe that blacks must look for and take responsibility for their contribution to the problems of South Africa, if the nation is to move forward successfully.
By identifying what you are doing to perpetuate a situation, you learn where you have leverage to affect the system. Simply by changing  your  own  behavior,  you  gain  at  least  some  influence  over  the problem.

## Finding Your Fair Share: Four Hard-to-Spot Contributions (p92)

'The concept of contribution makes sense,' you may be thinking. Even so, as you reflect on your own most pressing entanglement, you are baffled: 'In this particular situation, I just don't see how I have any  contribution.'  Spotting  your  own  contribution  becomes  easier with practice. But it helps to be familiar with four common contributions that are often overlooked.

## 1. Avoiding Until Now (p93)

One of the most common contributions to a problem, and one of the easiest to overlook, is the simple act of avoiding. You have allowed the problem to continue unchecked by not having addressed it earlier.  It  may  be  that  your  ex-husband  has  been  late  every  time  he's picked  up  your  kids  for  the  last  two  years,  but  you've  never  mentioned  to  him  that  it  was  a  problem.  It  may  be  that  your  boss  has trampled  thoughtlessly  on  your  self-esteem  since  you  began  work four years ago, but you've chosen not to share with her the impact on you.
One of  your  store  managers  deserves  a  warning  or  even  to  be fired. But his file is full of 'Satisfactory' performance reviews dating back years.  Why?  Partly  because  you  wanted  to  avoid  the  effort  of documenting the problem, but mostly because you and other supervisors  haven't  wanted  the  hassle  of  having  an  ongoing  difficult conversation with an argumentative person. And because managers in  your  company tolerate  and  collude  in  a  norm  of  avoiding  such conversations.
A particularly problematic form of avoiding is complaining to a third party instead of to the person with whom you're upset. It makes you feel better, but puts the third party in the middle with no good way to help. They can't speak for you, and if they try, the other person may get the idea that the problem is so terrible that you can't discuss it directly. On the other hand, if they keep quiet, the third party is  burdened with only your partisan and incomplete version of the story.
This isn't to say that it's not okay to get advice from a friend about how to conduct a difficult conversation. It does suggest that if you do so, then you should also report back to that friend about any change in your feelings as a result of having the difficult conversation, so that they aren't left with an unbalanced story.

## 2. Being Unapproachable (p94)

The flip side of not bringing something up is having an interpersonal style that keeps people at bay. You contribute by being uninterested, unpredictable, short-tempered, judgmental, punitive, hypersensitive, argumentative, or unfriendly. Of course, whether you are really any of these things or intend this impact is not the point. If someone experiences you this way, they are less likely to raise things with you, and this becomes part of the system of avoidance between you.

## 3. Intersections (p94)

Intersections  result  from  a  simple  difference  between  two  people in  background,  preferences,  communication  style,  or  assumptions about  relationships.  Consider  Toby  and  Eng-An,  who  have  been married for about four months. Their fights have begun falling into a predictable pattern. Toby is usually the one to initiate a discussion about an issue - who is doing more of the housework, why Eng-An didn't stick up for him with her mother, whether to save or spend her year-end bonus. When things become heated, Eng-An ends the discussion by saying, 'Look, I just don't want to talk about this right now,' and walking out.
When Eng-An shuts down or walks out, Toby is left feeling abandoned and responsible for coping with the problems in their relationship on his own. He complains to friends that 'Eng-An is incapable of dealing with feelings, hers or mine. She goes into denial when the tiniest  thing  is  wrong.'  Toby  becomes  increasingly  frustrated  with their inability to make tough decisions, or simply to have it out.
Meanwhile, Eng-An is confiding in her sister: 'Toby is smothering me. Everything is an emergency, everything has to be discussed right  now. He has no sensitivity for how I feel about it or whether it's  a  good  time  for  me.  He  wanted  to  hunt  down  a  three-dollar discrepancy in our checking account on the night before my big pre-
sentation to the board! He's constantly making these minuscule disagreements into huge problems that we've got to discuss for hours.'
When  Toby  and  Eng-An  finally  talk  explicitly  about  what's happening, they realize that their past experiences have created an intersection  of  conflicting  assumptions  about  communication  and relationships.  Toby's  mother  had  alcohol  problems  that  escalated over the course of his childhood. Toby was the only member of the family willing to speak up about what was happening. His father and sisters went into denial, acting as if nothing were wrong and ignoring his mother's erratic behavior, no doubt clinging unconsciously to the hope that it would somehow get better. But it didn't. Perhaps as a result, Toby has a deep sense that raising and addressing problems immediately  is  crucial  to  the  ongoing  health  of  his  relationship  with Eng-An.
Eng-An's  home  was  quite  different.  Her  brother  is  mentally handicapped,  and  life  revolved  around  his  schedule  and  needs. While Eng-An loved her brother very much, she sometimes needed a respite  from  the  constant  emotional  turmoil  of  worry,  crises,  and caretaking that surrounded him. She learned not to react too quickly to  a  potential  problem and worked hard to create the distance she needed in an emotionally intense family. Toby's reactions to their disagreements threaten this carefully nurtured space.
We see how combining the two worldviews produces a system of interaction in which Toby talks and Eng-An withdraws. Operating in a blame frame, Toby concluded that their difficulties were Eng-An's fault  because  she  was  'in  denial'  and  'couldn't  handle  feelings.' Eng-An decided that their difficulties were Toby's fault, because he 'overreacts' and 'smothers me.' By shifting to a contribution frame, the couple was able to piece together the elements of the system that led  to  their  fights  and  talk  about  how  to  handle  it.  Only  then  did communication improve.
Toby and Eng-An were fortunate that they came to understand their intersection in time to do something about it. The failure to do so can be disastrous. In fact, treating an intersection as a question of right versus wrong leads to the death of a great many relationships.

## Mapping a Contribution System (p96)

When a relationship begins, infatuation may keep each partner from noticing any flaws in the other. Later, as the relationship deepens, each notices some minor annoyances in how the other does things, but the tendency is not to worry. We assume that in time, watching us, the other will learn to show more affection, be more spontaneous, or demonstrate more concern for living within a budget.
The problem is that things don't change, because each is waiting for the other to change. We begin to wonder: 'Don't they love me enough to do the right thing? Do they really love me at all?'
So long as we each continue to see this as a matter of right versus wrong, rather than as an intersection, there is no way to avoid a train wreck. In contrast, successful relationships, whether in our personal life or with our colleagues at work, are built on the knowledge that in intersections there is no one to blame. People are just different. If we hope to stay together over the long haul, we will sometimes have to compromise our preferences and meet in the middle.

## 4. Problematic Role Assumptions (p97)

A  fourth  hard-to-spot  contribution  involves  assumptions,  often  unconscious, about your role in a situation. When your assumptions differ from those of others you can have an intersection such as Toby and Eng-An's. But role assumptions can be problematic even when they are shared.
The  members  of  George's  family,  for  example,  all  knew  their parts  in  a  repetitive  family  dynamic.  Seven-year-old  George  would do  something  annoying,  like  bang  a  spoon  against  the  dog  dish. Eventually George's mother would say to her husband, 'Can't you make him stop that?' whereupon George's dad would yell 'Stop it!' George would jump, and perhaps cry, and his mom would then turn back to her husband and say, 'Well you didn't have to yell at him.' Dad would sigh and return to reading the paper. And after a few minutes, George would find another irritating way to get attention, and the pattern would repeat. While no member of the family particularly enjoyed this dynamic, it did help them connect emotionally.
Obviously, this form of connecting - fighting to show love - has limitations. Yet it and many other less-than-ideal dynamics are surprisingly common, at home and in the workplace. Why? First, because despite its  problems the familiar pattern is  comfortable,  and the  members of the group work to keep each person playing their role. Second, because changing a contribution system requires more than just spotting it and recognizing its limitations. The people involved also have to find another way to provide its benefits. George and his parents need to find better ways to demonstrate affection and maintain closeness. And this is likely to require some tough work in their Feelings and Identity Conversations.
In  an  organization,  this  explains  why  people  find  it  hard  to change how they work together even when they see the limitations of common role  assumptions,  such  as  'Leaders  set  strategy;  subordinates implement it.' To change how people interact, they need both an alternate model everyone thinks is better and the skills to make that model work at least as well as the current approach.

## Two Tools for Spotting Contribution (p98)

If you are still unable to see your contribution, try one of the following two approaches.

## Role Reversal (p98)

Ask yourself, 'What would they say I'm contributing?' Pretend you are the other person and answer the question in the first person, using pronouns such as I, me, and my. Seeing yourself through someone else's eyes can help you understand what you're doing to feed the system.

## The Observer's Insight (p98)

Step back and look at the problem from the perspective of a disinterested observer. Imagine that you are a consultant called in to help the people in this situation better understand why they are getting stuck.  How would you describe, in a neutral, nonjudgmental way, what each person is contributing?
If you have trouble getting out of your own shoes in this way, ask a friend to try for you. If what your friend comes up with surprises you, don't reject it immediately. Rather, imagine that it is true. Ask how that could be, and what it would mean.

## Moving from Blame to Contribution An Example (p98)

Shifting your stance away from assessing blame and toward exploring contribution doesn't happen overnight. It takes hard work and persistence. You will repeatedly find yourself and others slipping back into
a blame frame, and will need to be vigilant in constantly correcting your course.
Sydney learned this while leading a team of engineers on a consulting assignment in Brazil. She was the only woman on the project, and the youngest on the team by fifteen years. One of the team members, Miguel, was particularly hostile to her leadership, and she set out to win him over by assigning him to work with her on a number of subcomponents of the project. The two executed several tasks together successfully, and each began to feel more comfortable with the other's style and competence.
Then  one  evening  while  working  through  dinner  at  the  hotel restaurant, Miguel changed the currency of their relationship. 'You are so beautiful,' Miguel said to Sydney. 'And we're so far away from home.' He leaned across the table and stroked her hair. Uncomfortable, Sydney suggested they 'get back to these figures.' She avoided his eyes and wrapped things up quickly.
Miguel's provocative behavior continued over the next few days. He would stand close to Sydney, pay more attention to her than to other  members of the team, seek her out at every opportunity. Although he never issued a direct invitation for physical involvement, Sydney wondered whether this was what he was after.
Initially,  like  many  of  us,  Sydney  fell  into  a  blame  frame.  She judged Miguel's behavior as inappropriate and felt victimized by it. But along with blame came several doubts. Just as she would get up the courage to tell Miguel his behavior was wrong, Sydney worried that  she  was  overreacting  or  misinterpreting  his  actions.  Perhaps  it was just a cultural difference.
Sydney also feared that accusing Miguel would take things from bad to worse. 'The situation is uncomfortable but manageable,' she thought. 'If I tell Miguel his behavior is wrong, I run the risk that he will explode, disrupt the team, or do something to endanger the project.  And the project is my first priority.' By continuing to think in terms of blame, Sydney kept the stakes of raising the issue unmanageably high.
The first  step  in  moving  away  from  blame  is  to  reorient  your  own thinking about the situation. You can begin to diagnose the system by looking for the contributions you've each made to create the problem. Some of us are prone to focus on the other person's contribution and have a harder time seeing our own. As 'shifters' we tend to see ourselves as innocent victims - when something goes wrong, it's always because of what someone else did. Others of us have the opposite tendency: we are all too aware of the negative consequences of  our  own  actions.  In  the  face  of  this,  others'  contributions  seem insignificant. An 'absorber' tends to feel responsible for everything.
Knowing your predisposition can help you fight it, enabling you to  get  a  balanced  picture  of  what  each  person  is  contributing.  To understand  a  contribution  system,  you  have  to  understand  all  its components.
What Are They Contributing? Miguel's contributions are relatively easy to identify. He is expressing romantic affection, but failing to  clarify  his  intentions  or  the  extent  of  his  interest.  He  chooses  to stand close to Sydney, to spend more time and energy talking with her than with his other colleagues, to hint at feelings of longing for her. He chooses (consciously or unconsciously) to ignore the nonverbal signals Sydney is sending. She changes the subject. She changes the staffing assignments. She moves away. He follows. He has chosen not to inquire about how she feels about what is happening.
Miguel may or may not be aware of Sydney's discomfort. His actions may or may not be blameworthy. And it may or may not be appropriate  to  punish  him.  But  these  are  separate  inquiries  from  the question of contribution. What is important here is that these are the pieces of the puzzle that come from Miguel.
What Am I Contributing? Sydney's contributions begin to surface once we shift out of the blame frame. She was particularly atten-
tive to Miguel's concerns about the team and went out of her way to work with him. He may have read this as interest on her part. Sydney has avoided telling Miguel - at least directly - that she's felt at all uncomfortable. Regardless of how justified or understandable Sydney's actions are, these actions and inactions on her part contributed to  their  current  situation;  they  make  it  easier  to  understand  why Miguel continues to act as he does.

## List Each Person's Contribution (p101)

Who Else Is Involved? Often there are other important contributors to the system. For example, with Toby and Eng-An, their families  played  an  important  role.  In  Sydney's  case,  other  members  of the team may have inadvertently encouraged Miguel or passed up opportunities to help Sydney. When exploring a contribution system, consider  whether  other  players  may  be  contributing  something important.

## Take Responsibility for Your Contribution Early (p101)

Raising  contribution  during  the  conversation  itself  can  be  surprisingly easy. Getting the other person to shift from blame to contribution can be more difficult. One of the best ways to signal that you
want to leave behind the question of who's to blame is to acknowledge your own contribution early in the conversation. For example, Sydney might say to Miguel:
I apologize for not bringing this up earlier, before it became such a big deal for me. Also, I realize that arranging for us to work together at  the  beginning  of  the  project  may  have  sent  a  confusing  signal, though all I intended was to improve our professional relationship. What was your reaction?
She might also ask, 'Are there other things I've done that were ambiguous  or  that  suggested  I  might  be  interested  in  something else?' Sydney would learn important information about her own impact, and also set the stage for discussion of Miguel's contribution.
You may fear that being the first to own up to some contribution puts  you  in  a  vulnerable  position  for  the  rest  of  the  conversation. What if the other person remains focused on blame, is more than happy to acknowledge your contribution (saying, in effect, 'I agree that this is your fault'), and then is adamant that they contributed nothing?
This is an important concern, especially if you tend to be a contribution  absorber.  Acknowledging  your  contribution  is  a  risk.  But not  acknowledging  your  contribution  also  involves  risks.  If  Sydney starts by pointing out Miguel's contributions, Miguel is likely to become defensive and feel that the conversation is unfairly one-sided. Rather than acknowledging his contribution,  Miguel  may  be tempted to deflect attention from it, and the easiest way to do that is to point out Sydney's part in the problem. Taking responsibility for your contribution up front prevents the other person from using it as a shield to avoid a discussion of their own contribution.
If  you feel the focus is somehow on you alone, you can say so: 'It's not okay to look only at my contribution. That's not reality as I see it. I feel like I'm trying to look at both of us. Is there anything I'm doing to make it hard for you to look at yourself?'

## Help Them Understand Their Contribution (p103)

In addition to taking responsibility for what you contributed, there are things you can do to help them locate their contribution.
Make  Your  Observations  and  Reasoning  Explicit. To  make sure that you're working from the same information and understand each other's interpretations, share, as specifically as you can recall it what the other person did or said that triggered your reaction. Sydney might say, for example, 'When you stroked my hair or asked if we could spend some private time at the beach, I was confused about what you wanted from our relationship. And I began to worry that if you  wanted  romance,  then  I  would  have  a  real  problem  on  my hands.'
Or Toby could tell Eng-An: 'When you left the house last night in the middle of our fight, I felt abandoned and angry. I think that's why I picked a fight with you this morning over the orange juice. I needed to reconnect with you, even if it was just by yelling at you.' By jotting down the things that triggered you to react, you are starting to get a handle on the actions and reactions that make up the contribution system.
Clarify What You Would Have Them Do Differently. In addition to explaining what triggered your reaction, you should be prepared to say what you would have them do differently in the future, and explain how this would help you behave differently as well. The husband  trying  to  repair  the  relationship  with  his  adulterous  wife might say:
I want to do a better job of listening to you and not withdrawing in the future. One thing that would help me to listen is if you could first ask me how my day was, and whether this is a good time to talk. Sometimes I'm preoccupied or anxious about work, and when you start telling me about the problems you're having with your boss, I
just get overloaded and shut down. And sometimes I feel angry, because it makes me think you don't care about what's going on with me. So if you just asked first, I think I'd be in a much better place to listen to you. Is there anything that would make that difficult?
Making a specific request for how the other person can change their contribution in the service of helping you change yours can be a powerful way of helping them understand what they are doing to create and perpetuate the problem. And it goes to the heart of the purpose  of  understanding  the  contribution  system - to  see  what  you each need to do differently to influence and improve the situation.
Whether  you're  talking  about  your  contrasting  stories,  your  intentions, or your contributions, the goal isn't to get an admission. The goal is  to  understand  better  what's  happened  between you, so that you can start to talk constructively about where to go next.
But in addition to clarifying the 'What Happened?' Conversation,  there  are  two  other  conversations  that  need  untangling.  The next two chapters examine the Feelings and Identity Conversations.

## The Feelings Conversation (p105)


## 5 (p107)


## Have Your Feelings (Or They Will Have You) (p107)

A mother hears a crash in the living room and runs in to find her four-year-old son, baseball bat in hand, standing next to a shattered vase. 'What happened?' she asks. Contrite, looking away, the boy answers, 'Nothing.'
When it  comes  to  acknowledging  difficult  emotions,  we  often adopt the strategy of the young batter. If we deny that the emotions are  there,  then  maybe  we  can  avoid  the  consequences  of  feeling them.  But  we  have  about  the  same  chance  of  hiding  our  emotions  as  the  boy  has  of  convincing  his  mother  that  all  is  well  with the  vase.  Feelings  are  too  powerful  to  remain  peacefully  bottled. They will be heard one way or another, whether in leaks or bursts. And  if  handled  indirectly  or  without  honesty,  they  contaminate communication.

## Feelings Matter: They Are Often at the Heart of Difficult Conversations (p107)

Feelings, of course, are part of what makes good relationships so rich and satisfying. Feelings like passion and pride, silliness and warmth, and even jealousy, disappointment, and anger let us know that we are fully alive.
At  the  same  time,  managing  feelings  can  be  enormously  challenging.  Our  failure  to  acknowledge  and  discuss  feelings  derails  a startling number of difficult conversations. And the inability to deal openly and well with feelings can undermine the quality and health of our relationships.
Max and his daughter Julie are negotiating about how much to spend  on  Julie's  upcoming  wedding.  Should  this  conversation  be about money alone? If so, then Max and Julie can simply list what they want and look for ways to accommodate these desires. 'That's it.  We'll  spend  two  thousand  dollars  on  the  ballroom,  fifteen  hundred on the band, seventy-two hundred on food,' and so forth. End of conversation.
But it isn't that easy. The conversation feels difficult and stressful for both dad and daughter. Each is feeling impatient, sensitive, and ready to find fault with the other. It is not, after all, just a matter of money. It is also about feelings. For example, Max experiences a deep sense of both sadness and joy when he thinks of the event - sadness because he will be receiving less of Julie's attention from now on, and joy because she has matured into such a wonderful woman. To Max, the planning of the event represents a final opportunity for his daughter to be just his daughter, and not also someone's wife. He'd like her to ask questions and to seek advice from him, the way she did when she was younger.
For better or worse, this conversation will not go well unless these feelings are surfaced. Why? Because you can't have an effective conversation  without  talking  about  the  primary  issues  at  stake,  and  in this conversation feelings are at the heart of what's wrong. No matter how skillfully dad and daughter negotiate about how much money to spend, the outcome will not leave them feeling satisfied unless they also talk about how they are feeling.

## We Try to Frame Feelings Out of the Problem (p108)

Max originally described his problem to us by saying, 'My daughter and I are having trouble deciding how much we should spend on her
wedding. She'd like to do certain things, and I respect that, but I believe  there  are  cheaper  options  available.'  It  was  only  after  talking with him that we learned that what was really at stake for each of them were the feelings involved in the event.
This is a common pattern: we frame the problem exclusively as a substantive  disagreement  and  believe  that  if  only  we  were  more skilled  at  problem-solving,  we'd  be  able  to  lick  the  thing.  Solving problems seems easier than talking about emotions.
Framing feelings out of the problem is one way we cope with the dilemma  of  whether  to  raise  something  or  avoid  it.  The  potential costs involved in sharing feelings makes raising them feel like too big a gamble. When we lay our feelings on the table, we run the risk of hurting others and of ruining relationships. We also put ourselves in a position to get hurt. What if the other person doesn't take our feelings seriously or responds by telling us something we don't want to hear? By sticking to the 'business at hand,' we appear to reduce these risks.
The problem is that when feelings are at the heart of what's going on, they are the business at hand and ignoring them is nearly impossible. In many difficult conversations, it is really only at the level of feelings that the problem can be addressed. Framing the feelings out of the conversation is likely to result in outcomes that are unsatisfying for both people. The real problem is not dealt with, and further, emotions have an uncanny knack for finding their way back into the conversation, usually in not very helpful ways.

## Unexpressed Feelings Can Leak into the Conversation (p109)

Emma was stunned to learn that her friend and mentor, Kathy, had told the Executive Committee that she didn't think Emma was mature  enough  to  handle  the  responsibility  her  new  promotion  required. 'I felt so betrayed,' says Emma. 'I was hurt that Kathy would think such a thing, and furious that she'd say something to management rather than to me.' Upon further reflection, Emma also admitted some self-doubt. 'What if I'm not ready?' she worried.
Late  that  afternoon,  Emma  and  Kathy  had  a  brief  exchange about the situation:
Emma: I  heard  you  told  the  Executive  Committee  that  I couldn't handle the new responsibility.
Kathy: Wait a second. I didn't say you couldn't handle responsibility. I simply said I thought you were being promoted awfully fast. I don't want them to set you up to fail.
Emma: Well you should have come to me if you had doubts.
Kathy: I  was  going to talk to you about it. But I also have an obligation to talk to management.
Emma: You have an obligation to talk to me first. I can't believe you would jeopardize my career like this.
Kathy: Emma, I've always supported your career! This is a question of when you should be promoted, not if.
Rather  than  share  her  feelings,  Emma  provokes  an  argument about  the  rules  of  professional  communication.  At  no  point  does Emma say 'I feel hurt' or 'I feel angry' or 'I'm terrified that you might  be  right,'  yet  these  feelings  have  a  significant  effect  on  the conversation.
Unspoken feelings  can  color  the  conversation  in  a  number  of ways. They alter your affect and tone of voice. They express themselves  through  your  body  language  or  facial  expression.  They  may take the form of long pauses or an odd and unexplained detachment. You may become sarcastic, aggressive, impatient, unpredictable, or defensive.  Studies  show  that  while  few  people  are  good  at  detecting factual lies, most of us can determine when someone is distorting,  manufacturing,  or  withholding  an  emotion.  That's  because,  if clogged, your emotional pipes will leak.
Indeed,  unexpressed  feelings  can  create  so  much  tension  that you disengage: you choose not to work with a particular colleague because you have so many unresolved feelings about them, or you become distant from your spouse, children, or friends.

## Unexpressed Feelings Can Burst into the Conversation (p111)

For some of us, the problem is not that we are unable to express our feelings, but that we are unable not to. We get angry and show it in ways that are embarrassing or destructive. We cry or explode when we  would  rather  act  composed  and  capable.  Of  course,  there  are many possible explanations for anger or tears, some of which have deep psychological roots. One common explanation, however, is just the opposite of what we might expect. We don't cry or lose our temper because we express our feelings too often, but because we express them  too  rarely.  Like  finally  opening  a  carbonated  drink  that  has been shaken, the results can be messy.
Edward, for example, had the troubling habit of shouting at his wife when he was feeling frustrated. He told us he was working on learning to control his feelings. No matter how upset he felt by his wife's behavior, he desperately tried not to let his emotions show. But eventually he'd explode. His explanation for this pattern was that he was  simply  too  emotional,  yet  his  efforts  to  contain  himself  only made the habit worse.

## Unexpressed Feelings Make It Difficult to Listen (p111)

Unexpressed feelings can cause a third, more subtle problem. The two hardest (and most important) communication tasks in difficult conversations are expressing feelings and listening. A significant pattern we've observed in our coaching involves the sometimes elusive relationship between the two skills. When people are having a hard time listening, often it is not because they don't know how to listen well.  It  is,  paradoxically,  because  they  don't  know  how  to  express themselves well. Unexpressed feelings can block the ability to listen.
Why? Because good listening requires an open and honest curiosity about the other person, and a willingness and ability to keep the spotlight on them. Buried emotions draw the spotlight back to us. Instead of wondering, 'How does what they are saying make sense?'
and 'Let me try to learn more,' we have a record playing in our mind that  is  stuck  in  the  groove  of  our  own  feelings:  'I'm  so  angry  with him!' 'I feel like she just doesn't seem to care about me,' 'I feel so vulnerable right now.' It's hard to hear someone else when we are feeling unheard, even if the reason we feel unheard is that we have chosen not to share. Our listening ability often increases remarkably once we have expressed our own strong feelings.

## Unexpressed Feelings Take a Toll on Our Self-Esteem and Relationships (p112)

When important feelings remain unexpressed, you may experience a loss  of  self-esteem,  wondering  why  you  don't  stick  up  for  yourself. You deprive your colleagues, friends, and family members of the opportunity to learn and to change in response to your feelings. And, perhaps most damagingly, you hurt the relationship. By keeping your feelings out of the relationship you are keeping an important part of yourself out of the relationship.

## A Way Out of the Feelings Bind (p112)

There are ways to manage the problem of feelings. Working to get feelings into the conversation is almost always helpful as long as you do so in a purposive way. While the drawbacks of avoiding feelings are inevitable, the drawbacks of sharing feelings are not. If you are able to share feelings with skill, you can avoid many of the potential costs associated with expressing feelings and even reap some unexpected benefits. This is the way out of the feelings bind.
By following a few key guidelines you can greatly increase your chances  of  getting  your  feelings  into  your  conversations  and  into your relationships in ways that are healthy, meaningful, and satisfying: first, you need to sort out just what your feelings are; second, you need to negotiate with your feelings; and third,  you  need  to  share
your actual feelings, not attributions or judgments about the other person.

## Finding Your Feelings: Learn Where Feelings Hide (p113)

Most of us assume that knowing how we feel is no more complicated than knowing whether we are hot or cold. We just know. But in fact, we often don't know how we feel. Many of us know our own emotions about as well as we know a city we are visiting for the first time. We may recognize certain landmarks, but fail to understand the subtle rhythms of daily life; we can find the main boulevards, but remain oblivious to the tangle of back streets where the real action is. Before we can get to where we're going, we need to know where we are. When it comes to understanding our own emotions, where most of us are is lost.
This isn't because we're dumb, but because recognizing feelings is  challenging.  Feelings  are  more  complex  and  nuanced  than  we usually  imagine.  What's  more,  feelings  are  very  good  at  disguising themselves. Feelings we are uncomfortable with disguise themselves as emotions we are better able to handle; bundles of contradictory feelings masquerade as a single emotion; and most important, feelings transform themselves into judgments, accusations, and attributions.

## Explore Your Emotional Footprint (p113)

As we grow up, each of us develops a characteristic 'emotional footprint' whose shape is determined by which feelings we believe are okay to have and express and which are not. Think back to when you were growing up. How did your family handle emotions? Which feelings  were  easily  discussed,  and  which  did  people  pretend  weren't there? What was your role in the emotional life of the family? What emotions do you now find it easy to acknowledge and express, and
with whom? Which do you find more difficult? As you consider your responses to these questions, the contours of your emotional footprint will begin to emerge.
Each of us has a unique footprint. You may believe that it's okay to feel longing or sadness, but not okay to feel anger. Anger may be easy  for  me  to  express,  while  feelings  of  shame  or  failure  are  offlimits.  And  it  is  not  only  so-called  negative  feelings  that  are  implicated. Some of us find it easy to express disappointment, but difficult to express affection, pride, or gratitude.
While there may be common themes, your emotional footprint will  be  different  in  different  relationships.  Your  awareness  of  and ability to express emotions will vary depending on whether you are with your mother, your best friend, your boss, or the person sitting next to you on the plane. Exploring the contours of your footprint across a variety of relationships can be extremely helpful in raising your awareness of what you are feeling and why.
Accept That Feelings Are Normal and Natural. One assumption many of us incorporate into our footprint is the assumption that there is  something  inherently  wrong  with  having  feelings.  As  Rick,  a  retired judge, observed, 'In my family we were taught not to talk about our problems, or the feelings that accompany them.' For some of us, merely having feelings, any feelings, is enough to cause us shame.
Depending on how we handle them, feelings can lead to great trouble. But the feelings themselves just are. In that sense, feelings are like arms or legs. If you hit or kick someone, then your arms or legs are causing trouble. But there's nothing inherently wrong with arms or legs. The same with feelings.
Recognize That Good People Can Have Bad Feelings. A second  assumption  many  of  us  incorporate  into  our  footprint  is  that there  are  certain  emotions  'good  people'  should  never  feel:  good people don't get angry at people they love, they don't cry, they don't fail, and they are never a burden. If you are a good person, we've got good news: everyone feels anger, everyone experiences the urge to cry, everyone fails, and everyone needs other people.
You won't always be happy with what you're feeling. For example, you assume you should feel sad at your brother's funeral but find instead  that  you  feel  only  rage.  You  know  you  should  be  excited about finally getting your dream job, but instead you're unmotivated and  weepy.  Whether  or  not  it  makes  sense,  you are. And while  it might  be  more  pleasant  to  have  only  good  feelings  toward  your mother, there will be times when you feel irritated or resentful or ashamed. We all experience such conflict, and it has nothing to do with whether or not we are a good person.
There are times when denying feelings serves a deeper psychological function: in the face of overwhelming anxiety, fear, loss, or trauma,  removing  yourself  from  your  feelings  can  help  you  cope with daily life. As the saying goes, 'Don't knock down a wall until you know why it was put up.' At the same time, the reality is that unacknowledged feelings are going to have an effect on communication.  All  things  being  equal,  it  is  better  to  strive  toward  an  understanding  of  your  feelings,  perhaps  over  time  with  a  therapist  or  a trusted friend. As you begin to feel things that were there all along and begin to deal with the underlying causes of these feelings, your interactions  with  others - including  difficult  conversations - will become increasingly easy to handle.
Learn That Your Feelings Are as Important as Theirs. Some of  us  can't  see  our  own  feelings  because  we  have  learned  somewhere along the way that other people's feelings are more important than ours.
For example, it was always assumed that your father would move in with your family when his health began to fail. But now that he has,  his  constant  demands  and  crankiness  are  beginning  to  take  a toll, especially on top of managing his medications and frequent doctor's  visits.  You  are  exhausted and frustrated, and wonder why your brother isn't willing to do his share. Yet you don't raise it with parent or sibling. 'It's hard, but it's not that hard,' you reason. 'Besides, I don't want to rock the boat.'
Your girlfriend calls and says she can't have dinner on Friday after all. She's wondering whether Saturday is okay. She says a friend of
hers is in town and wants to see a movie on Friday. You say, 'Sure, if that's better for you.' Although you said yes, Saturday is actually not as good for you, because you had planned to go to a baseball game. Still, you'd rather see your girlfriend, so you give your ticket away.
In each of these situations, you've chosen to put someone else's feelings ahead of your own. Does this make sense? Is your father's frustration or your brother's peace of mind more important than yours? Is your girlfriend's desire to see a movie with her friend more important than your desire to see a baseball game? Why is it that they express their feelings and preferences, but you cope with yours privately?
There are several reasons why you may choose to honor others' feelings even when it means dishonoring your own. The implicit rule you are following is that you should put other people's happiness before your own. If your friends or loved ones or colleagues don't get their way, they'll feel bad, and then you'll have to deal with the consequences. That may be true, but it's unfair to you. Their anger is no better or worse than yours.
'Well, it's just easier not to rock the boat,' you think. 'I don't like it  when  they're  mad  at  me.'  If  you're  thinking  this,  then  you  are undervaluing  your  own  feelings  and  interests.  Friends,  neighbors, and bosses will recognize this and begin to see you as someone they can manipulate. When you are more concerned about others' feelings  than  your  own,  you  teach  others  to  ignore  your  feelings  too. And beware: one of the reasons you haven't raised the issue is that you don't want to jeopardize the relationship. Yet by not raising it, the resentment you feel will grow and slowly erode the relationship anyway.

## Find the Bundle of Feelings Behind the Simple Labels (p116)

Brad and his mother were often at odds over Brad's job search. Brad's mother called frequently to prod her son to send off résumés, to go to interviews, to network. For his part, Brad wasn't much interested. He tuned his mother out or tried to change the subject.
He talked to a friend about the problem, and she counseled him not to withdraw but instead to tell his mother how he was feeling. 'What good will that do?' Brad asked. 'All I'm feeling is angry. She drives  me  crazy.'  But  Brad's  friend  persisted,  encouraging  him  to consider what he felt in addition to anger. Brad took on his friend's challenge, and that evening he made a list of all the things he was feeling - about the job search, about his mother, and about himself.
He was stunned. About the job search, he was feeling hopeless, confused, and afraid. Putting off the search was Brad's way of putting off some of the anxiety. About his mother, Brad's feelings were more complex. On the one hand, he did indeed experience her constant prodding as a great annoyance. On the other hand, he also experienced it as a form of love and caring, and that meant a great deal to him.
About himself, Brad felt mostly shame. He believed he was letting his mother down and that, at least up until now, he was wasting his potential and his college education. But even as he felt shame, he felt some pride as well. Several of his friends had gotten jobs in management training, and Brad too could have taken this route. But that wasn't what he wanted, and he was willing to accept the pressure of the search to hold out for something that fit him better. In the meantime, he was supporting himself with odd jobs, and had never asked for a penny from his mother.
By suggesting that Brad felt more than just anger, Brad's friend offered him a powerful insight. Where he had originally seen only one emotion, Brad was able to find an entire spectrum of emotions.
In many situations, we are blinded to the complexity of our feelings by one strong feeling that trumps all the others. In Brad's case it was anger. In other situations, and for different people, it may be a different emotion.
Simply becoming familiar with the spectrum of difficult-to-find feelings may trigger a flash of recognition for you. On p. 96, there is a partial list of some feelings that, though quite familiar in the abstract, are sometimes difficult for people to identify in themselves or express to others.
Don't  Let  Hidden  Feelings  Block  Other  Emotions. Another common pattern is the existence of a feeling we are not even aware of,  but  that  interferes with  our  experiences nonetheless.
Jamila had  difficulty expressing her feelings of love toward her husband. 'I know I  love  him,'  she  said. 'He's  been  generous and  a  good  husband, putting up with all my  stuff.  But  I  have such  a  hard  time  letting  him  know  that  I love  him.'  Something was acting as a block, and she wasn't exactly sure what it was.
At first, Jamila blamed herself: 'Maybe this is just another way  that  I'm  inadequate. A good wife can  tell  her  husband she cares about him.' In our effort to coach her,  we  asked  Jamila if  she  ever  expressed other feelings  about her husband. We

## A Landscape of Sometimes Hard-to-Find Feelings (p118)


## Love (p118)

Affectionate, caring, close, proud, passionate

## Anger (p118)

Frustrated, exasperated, enraged, indignant

## Hurt (p118)


## Shame (p118)

Embarrassed, guilty, regretful, humiliated, self-loathing

## Fear (p118)

Anxious, terrified, worried, obsessed, suspicious

## Self-Doubt (p118)

Inadequate, unworthy, inept, unmotivated

## Joy (p118)

Happy, enthusiastic, full, elated, content

## Sadness (p118)


## Jealousy (p118)

Envious, selfish, covetous, anguished, yearning

## Gratitude (p118)

Appreciative, thankful, relieved, admiring

## Loneliness (p118)

Desolate, abandoned, empty, longing were specifically interested in whether she expressed anger or disappointment.  'You're  missing  the  point,'  she  asserted.  'I'm  trying  to learn to express love. If anyone has the right to be angry, it's my husband, for having to put up with me all the time.'
This comment raised some flags. In any marriage, in any relationship, each person will feel at least some anger toward the other. 'Have you ever felt anger toward your husband?' we asked. 'I suppose on occasion,' she finally said. 'What would you say to your husband,' we asked, 'if you could let your guard down completely, if you  could  vent  at  him - get  everything  off  your  chest - with  absolutely no consequences attached?'
After a slow start, Jamila was surprisingly forthcoming: 'Sure, I'm not the best wife, but it's no wonder I run from you every chance I get! I'm sick of you playing the victim all the time, sick of your petty fears and constant complaining! I may not be perfect, but you're not God's gift either, pal! Do you ever stop to think of the impact your constant sniping has on me?!'
As soon as she finished, Jamila added, 'Of course, I would never say any of that, and, really, I don't know if any of it is very fair. . . .' It doesn't  matter  if  it's  fair  or  reasonable  or  rational.  What  matters  is that it is there. You can imagine the effect her buried anger was having on Jamila's ability to express love for her husband. Or, for that matter,  on  her  attempts  to  express  any  feelings  at  all.  The  anger, though she kept it hidden even from herself, was getting in the way. Jamila put it well: 'If I could just share some of that, it would be easy to balance it with the love I feel.'
Let's hold for a moment the important question of whether and how to express feelings such as anger. We'll return to this example in the section below on negotiating with your feelings.

## Find the Feelings Lurking Under Attributions, Judgments, and Accusations (p119)

Peanuts aren't nuts. Whales aren't fish. Tomatoes aren't vegetables. And attributions, judgments, and accusations aren't feelings.
Lift the Lid on Attributions and Judgments. As we have seen, one danger of making attributions about the intentions of others is that  it  can  lead  to  defensiveness  and  misunderstandings.  A  second
danger is that the attributions themselves are so consuming that we fail to see the real feelings that are motivating them.
This happened to Emily in her relationship with her friend Roz. 'Roz just isn't warm,' Emily explains. 'I helped her through her divorce, talked with her all the time, kept her company when she was feeling lonely. I was always there for her. And she never said a word of thanks.' Emily claims that she has already shared her feelings with Roz and that it didn't help.
What, exactly, had Emily said to Roz? 'I told Roz exactly how I felt. I was honest. I told her that at times she can be self-absorbed and thoughtless. And true to form, she went on the attack. She told me I was  being  oversensitive.  That's  what  you  get  when  you  talk  about your feelings with someone like Roz. It's not worth it.'
Notice what Emily has communicated. She said, 'You are self-

## We Translate Our Feelings Into (p120)


## Judgments (p120)

'If you were a good friend you would have been there for me.'

## Attributions (p120)


## Characterizations (p120)


## Problem-Solving (p120)

'The answer is for you to call me more often.'
absorbed. You are thoughtless.' Both of these are judgments about Roz. Neither of them is a statement of  how  Emily  feels.  Prodded by this observation, Emily is able to focus more clearly on her own feelings: 'I  guess  I  feel  hurt.  I  feel confused  about  the  friendship. I feel angry at Roz. At some level I feel sort of embarrassed that I put all this work into a friendship that  obviously  wasn't  that  important  to  her. How stupid can I be?'
The difference between judgments about others and statements of our own feelings is sometimes difficult to see. Judgments feel like feelings when we are saying them. They are motivated by anger or frustration or hurt, and the person on the receiving end understands very clearly that we are feeling something. Unfortunately, that person probably isn't sure what we are feeling, and more important, is fo-
cused  on  the  fact  that  we  are  judging,  attributing,  and  blaming. That's only natural.
While they may feel similar, there is a vast difference between 'You are thoughtless and self-absorbed' and 'I feel hurt, confused, and embarrassed.' Finding the feelings that are lurking around and under angry attributions and judgments is a key step in bringing feelings into a conversation effectively.
Use the Urge to Blame as a Clue to Find Important Feelings. A common complaint when we encourage people to talk in terms of joint contribution rather than blame is that the ensuing conversation leaves them feeling unsatisfied. It is as if they are stuck with a bowl of fat-free yogurt when they're craving real ice cream. As a result, they tend to conclude that talking about contribution is not the real thing, that they really need to blame the other side.
What is unsatisfying, though, is not the failure to express blame, but the failure to express feelings. The urge to blame arises when the contribution system is explored in a feelings vacuum. When we can't seem to get past needing to say, 'Admit it! This was your fault!' we should recognize that as an important clue that we are sitting on unexpressed  emotions.  The  sense  of  incompleteness  that  sometimes accompanies  a  conversation  about  contribution  should  not  be  a stimulus to blame, but a stimulus to search further for hidden feelings.  Once  those  feelings  are  expressed  ('Here's  what  I've  contributed, here's what I think you've contributed, and, more important, I ended up feeling abandoned'), the urge to blame recedes.

## Don't Treat Feelings as Gospel: Negotiate with Them (p121)

A colleague of ours has two rules for expressing feelings. He begins by explaining rule number two: try to get everything you are feeling into the conversation. Most people are horrified by this rule. Surely, we think to ourselves, there are plenty of feelings that are better left
unexpressed.  Which  brings  our  friend  to  rule  number  one:  before saying what you are feeling, negotiate with your feelings.
Most of us assume that our feelings are static and nonnegotiable, and that if they are to be shared authentically, they must be shared 'as  is.'  In  fact,  our  feelings  are  based  on  our  perceptions,  and  our perceptions (as we have seen in the preceding three chapters) are negotiable. As we see the world in new ways, our feelings shift accordingly. Before sharing feelings, then, it is crucial to negotiate - with ourselves.
What does it mean to negotiate with our feelings? Fundamentally,  it  involves  a  recognition  that  our  feelings  are  formed  in  response  to  our  thoughts.  Imagine  that  while  scuba  diving,  you suddenly see a shark glide into view. Your heart starts to pound and your anxiety skyrockets. You're terrified, which is a perfectly rational and understandable feeling.
Now imagine that your marine biology training enables you to identify it as a Reef Shark, which you know doesn't prey on anything as large as you. Your anxiety disappears. Instead you feel excited and curious  to  observe  the  shark's  behavior.  It  isn't  the  shark  that's changed; it's the story you tell yourself about what's happening. In any given situation our feelings follow our thoughts.
This means that the route to changing your feelings is through altering your thinking. As we saw in the 'What Happened?' Conversation, our thinking is often distorted in predictable ways, providing rich ground for negotiating with our emotions. First, we need to examine our own story. What is the story we are telling ourselves that is giving rise to how we feel? What is our story missing? What might the  other  person's  story  be?  Almost  always,  an  increased  awareness of the other person's story changes how we feel.
Next, we need to explore our assumptions about the other person's intentions. To what extent are our feelings based on an untested assumption  about  their  intentions?  Might  the  other  person  have acted unintentionally, or from multiple and conflicting intentions? How does our view of their intentions affect how we feel? And what about our own intentions? What was motivating us? How might our actions have impacted them? Does that change how we feel?
Finally, we should consider the contribution system. Are we able to see our own contribution to the problem? Are we able to describe the other person's contribution without blaming? Are we aware of the ways that each of our contributions forms a reinforcing pattern that magnifies the problem? In what way does this shift how we feel?
We don't need definitive answers to these questions. Indeed, until we have had a conversation with the other person, we can only hypothesize.  But  it  is  enough  to  raise  the  questions,  to  grapple  with them,  to  walk  around  the  sculpture  of  our  feelings  and  observe  it from different angles. If we are thoughtful, if we are honest, if we approach the questions openly and with a spirit of fairness, our feelings will begin to shift. Our anger may lose its edge; our hurt may run less deeply; our feelings of betrayal or abandonment or shame or anxiety may feel more manageable.
Consider again Jamila's situation with her husband. Venting to us helped Jamila get in touch with her feelings of anger. But anger was not all she was feeling, nor upon reflection did she think of herself as a victim or her husband as entirely pathetic. When she considered the situation from his point of view, when she asked herself what his intentions might have been, when she focused not on blame but on what each of them had contributed, her portrait of the situation became more complex, as did her feelings.
She was able to take the And Stance and keep several things in her head at once, and to share all of those things with her husband. 'I know I've contributed to the problems we're having,' she told him. 'I think that the anger and frustration I've been feeling in reaction to your contributions has made me focus more on our problems than on our strengths. But when I step back from that, what's also clear to me is that I love you very much, and I'd like for things to get better.' Jamila realized that by working, however slowly, to express some of her feelings of anger, she would be clearing the way to express the love that originally motivated her to seek help.

## Don't Vent: Describe Feelings Carefully (p124)

Once you have found your feelings and negotiated with them, you face the task of deciding how to handle those feelings. There will be times when you decide that sharing your feelings is unnecessary or unhelpful. At other times, of course, your feelings will take center stage in the conversation.
Too often we confuse being emotional with expressing emotions clearly. They are different. You can express emotion well without being emotional, and you can be extremely emotional without expressing  much  of  anything  at  all.  Sharing  feelings  well  and  clearly requires  thoughtfulness.  Below  are  three  guidelines  for  expressing your feelings that should help ease your anxiety and make an effective conversation more likely.

## 1. Frame Feelings Back into the Problem (p124)

Step  one  in  expressing  feelings  well  involves  simply  remembering that  they're  important.  Almost  every  difficult  conversation  will  involve strong feelings. It is always possible to define a problem without reference to feelings. But that's not true problem-solving. If feelings are the real issue, then feelings should be addressed.
Your feelings need not be rational to be expressed. Thinking that you shouldn't feel as you do will rarely change the fact that you do. Your feelings, at least for the moment, are an important aspect of the relationship. You can preface their expression with an admission that you  are  uncomfortable  with  these  feelings,  or  that  you  aren't  sure they make sense, but follow that preface by expressing them. Your purpose here is simply to get them out. You can decide what, if anything, to do about them later.

## 2. Express the Full Spectrum of Your Feelings (p125)

Let's return to the conversation between Brad and his mother about Brad's job search. It's easy to see why Brad would be hesitant to express his emotions when he's aware only of his anger. He imagines himself telling his mother he's angry at her, only to have her say the same back. At best, the conversation won't go anywhere. More likely, they will each feel even angrier than before.
But what if Brad took the time to paint a more complete picture? Instead of saying, 'Mom, you're driving me crazy!' Brad might say, 'When you ask me how the job search is going, I feel a couple of things. One thing I feel is angry. I suppose that's because I've asked you not to bring it up, and you do anyway. But at the same time, part of me is appreciative, and reassured that things will be okay. It means a lot that you're looking out for me and that you care.'
And when his mother asks why he's not being more aggressive about looking for a job, rather than saying, 'Stop bugging me,' Brad might say, 'It's hard for me to talk with you about this. Whenever I think about it, I end up feeling ashamed, like maybe I'm wasting my potential or letting you down.'
By putting the broader spectrum of his feelings into the conversation, Brad has changed the nature of the conversation. It's no longer a battle of anger. Brad has brought some depth and complexity to the discussion, and given his mother some things to reflect on. She better understands what is motivating her son's behavior, and the impact of her actions on him. The conversation doesn't end with Brad's expression of feeling; indeed, that's just the beginning. Nor does expressing the full range of emotion make the conversation 'easy.' But it may well be less contentious, lead to greater understanding and engagement, and point the way toward different patterns of interacting that are more mutually supportive.

## 3. Don't Evaluate - Just Share (p126)

Getting everyone's feelings on the table, heard and acknowledged, is essential before you can begin to sort through them. If you say, 'I felt hurt,' and they say, 'You're overreacting,' the process of struggling toward  deeper  understanding  of  each  other  and  of  the  problem is  short-circuited.  Premature  evaluation  of  whether  feelings  are  legitimate  will  undermine  their  expression  and,  ultimately,  the  relationship.  You  can  establish  an  evaluation-free  zone  by  respecting the  following  guidelines:  share  pure  feelings  (without  judgments, attributions,  or  blame);  save  problem-solving  until  later;  and  don't monopolize.
Express Your Feelings Without Judging, Attributing, or Blaming. People often say, 'I've expressed my feelings, and all it did was cause a fight.' Remember the story of Emily and Roz. Emily told Roz that  she  thought  Roz  was  'thoughtless  and  self-absorbed,'  because Roz had not thanked Emily for being a good friend during Roz's divorce. Not surprisingly, Roz became defensive and angry.
After  realizing  that  she  had  expressed  judgments  about  Roz rather than her own feelings, Emily started over: 'Instead of judging her, I just explained that I felt hurt. And confused about the state of our  friendship.  I  was  amazed.  She  was  very  contrite,  and  couldn't stop thanking me for how I had helped her.'
Talking successfully about feelings requires you to be scrupulous about  taking  the  judgments,  attributions,  and  statements  of  blame out of what you are saying, and putting the statement of feeling in. It is  crucial  to  look  at  the  actual  words  you  are  using  to  see  whether those words really convey what you want them to. For example, the statement 'You are so damn undependable!' is a judgment about the other person's character. There is no reference in the statement to how the speaker feels. We should not be surprised if the response is 'I am not undependable!'
In contrast, the statement 'I feel frustrated. You didn't send the
letter  out,'  removes  the  blame  and  focuses  on  the  feelings  underneath. Such a formulation won't make all of your problems disappear, but it is more likely to lead to a productive discussion.
A more subtle but equally common difficulty occurs when we mix a pure statement of feelings with a statement of blame. We say, 'You didn't call me like you said. It's your fault that I felt hurt.' This statement contains a feeling -'I felt hurt'- but it also contains a conclusion about causation, of who is to blame for my being hurt. The person you are talking with is likely to focus on the fact that you are blaming them rather than focus on your feelings. A better way to express this is to state the pure feeling first -'When you didn't call, I felt hurt'- and to explore joint contribution (not blame) later.
Don't Monopolize: Both Sides Can Have Strong Feelings at the Same Time. If you and your significant other are grocery shopping, it is unlikely that only one of you will be putting food into the grocery  cart.  Instead,  you'll  both  be  tossing  in  your  favorite  items. The same is true when discussing feelings. You can feel angry at your boss for the way she treated you when you arrived at work late, and she can feel annoyed with you for not getting the memo done on time. If you have strong feelings, it's quite likely that the other person does too. And just as your own ambivalent feelings don't cancel each other out, their feelings don't cancel yours, or vice versa. What's important is to get both parties' strong and perhaps conflicting emotions into the conversational cart before you head for the checkout.
An Easy Reminder: Say 'I Feel . . . .' It is surprising how many people would prefer to have a cavity filled without novocaine than to utter the simple words 'I feel.' Yet these words can have a powerful effect on your listener.
Beginning with 'I feel . . . .' is a simple act that carries with it extraordinary benefits. It keeps the focus on feelings and makes clear that you are speaking only from your perspective. It avoids the translation trap of judging or accusing. 'Why do you insist on undermining me in front of the kids?!' for example, is a promising start - for
an argument. Your spouse will obviously hear that you are upset or angry,  but  you  haven't  expressed  an  emotion  at  all - only  a  judgment about your spouse's intentions and parenting skills. If you begin instead  with,  'When  you  disagree  with  me  about  child-rearing  in front of the kids, I feel betrayed, and also worried about the message it sends to them,' your spouse cannot argue with how you feel. Your spouse is less likely to feel defensive and more likely to engage in a conversation  about  your  feelings,  theirs,  and  disciplinary  strategies you can develop together.

## The Importance of Acknowledgment (p128)

Describing feelings is an important first step along the road toward getting  things  resolved,  but  you  can't  leap  from  there  directly  into problem-solving.  Each  side  must  have  their  feelings acknowledged before you can even start down that road. Acknowledgment is a step that simply cannot be skipped.
What does it mean to acknowledge someone's feelings? It means letting the other person know that what they have said has made an impression on you, that their feelings matter to you, and that you are working to understand them. 'Wow,' you might say, 'I never knew you felt that way,' or, 'I kind of assumed you were feeling that, and I'm  glad  you  felt  comfortable  enough  with  me  to  share  it,'  or,  'It sounds like this is really important to you.' Let them know that you think understanding their perspective is important, and that you are trying to do so: 'Before I give you a sense of what's going on with me, tell me more about your feeling that I talk down to you.'
It's  tempting  to  jump  over  feelings.  We  want  to  get  on  with things, to address the problem, to make everything better. We often seek to get feelings out of the way by 'fixing' them: 'Well, let's see. If you're feeling lonely, I guess I'll try to spend more time with you.' Or even: 'You're right. What can I say?' This may be the other person's honest response to your feelings, and it is good they are sharing their reaction. But they're doing it too soon.
To  avoid  this  short  circuit,  direct  the  conversation  back  to  the
purpose of understanding: 'I'm not saying you intended to hurt me. I don't know whether you did or not. What's important to me is that you understand how I felt when you criticized my work in front of the department.' Before moving on to problem-solving, you have a responsibility to yourself and to the other person to ensure that they appreciate the importance of this topic to you; that they truly understand your feelings; and that they value your having shared them. If they aren't getting how important something is to you and you don't flag it, then you are letting yourself down.
Acknowledging feelings is crucial in any relationship, and particularly  so  in  what  are  sometimes  referred  to  as  'intractable  conflicts.' In one case, the simple act of acknowledging feelings helped transform a community divided by racial tensions. A small group of police officers, political leaders, businesspeople, and neighborhood residents gathered to discuss a series of recent incidents between police  officers  and  minority community members. When asked afterward  whether  he  thought  he  had  changed  any  minds,  a  black teenager, in tears, responded, 'You don't understand. I don't want to change their  minds.  I  just  wanted  to  share  my  story.  I  didn't  want to hear that everything will be okay or to hear that it wasn't their fault, or to have them tell me that their stories are just as terrible. I wanted to tell my story, to share my feelings. So why am I crying? Because now I know: they care enough about me to just listen.'

## Sometimes Feelings Are All That Matter (p129)

As soon as Max, our bride-to-be's father, shared his feelings of loss and  pride  with  his  daughter,  resolving  issues  about  how  to  spend money on the wedding became easy. The troubling subtexts of their previous conversations - feelings of rejection on Max's part, or resentment at Max's apparent need to be in control on his daughter's part - were discussed explicitly and ceased to get in the way of further logistical problem-solving. And the two of them began to form a relationship  based  on  an  honest  expression  of  who  they  were  and what they wanted to be to each other.
Sometimes,  however,  feelings  aren't  all  that  matter.  Sometimes they are difficult and troubling, and you still have a job to do together or kids to raise. The process of working on your relationship, or solving the problem you face, can be a long and hard one. Even so,  it's  one  where  being  able  to  communicate  effectively  with  the other person - about your feelings and about the problem - will be critical.

## The Identity Conversation (p131)


## Ground Your Identity: Ask Yourself What's at Stake (p133)

I've already accepted a job elsewhere, and all that's left for me to do is  tell  my  boss  I'm  leaving.  I  don't  need  any  references  or  future business, and no one can influence my decision. And still, when I think of telling my boss, I'm terrified.
Viewed from the outside, Ben would seem to have nothing to fear; he holds all the cards. Even so, Ben isn't getting any sleep.
He explains: 'My father worked for one company his whole life, and I always admired his loyalty. In my own life, I've tried to do the right  thing,  and  for  me  a  big  part  of  that  is  sticking  by  the  people around me-my parents, my wife, my children, and my colleagues. Telling my boss I'm leaving raises this loyalty issue directly. My boss was also my mentor, and has been very supportive. The whole thing is making me wonder: Am I really the loyal soldier I like to think I am,  or  just  another  greedy  jerk  willing  to  betray  someone  for  the right price?'

## Difficult Conversations Threaten Our Identity (p133)

Ben's predicament highlights a crucial aspect of why some conversations can be so overwhelmingly difficult. Our anxiety results not just
from having to face the other person, but from having to face ourselves. The conversation has the potential to disrupt our sense of who we are in the world, or to highlight what we hope we are but fear we are not. The conversation poses a threat to our identity - the story we tell  ourselves  about  ourselves - and  having  our  identity  threatened can be profoundly disturbing.

## Three Core Identities (p134)

There are probably as many identities as there are people. But three identity issues seem particularly common, and often underlie what concerns  us  most  during  difficult  conversations:  Am  I  competent? Am I a good person? Am I worthy of love?
Am I Competent? 'I  agonized  about  whether  to  bring  up  the subject of my salary. Spurred on by my colleagues, I finally did. Before I could even get started, my supervisor said, 'I'm surprised you want to discuss this. The truth is, I've been disappointed by your performance this year.' I felt nauseous. Maybe I'm not the talented chemist I thought I was.'
Am I a Good Person? 'I had intended to break up with Sandra that night. I began in a roundabout way, and as soon as she got the drift, she started to cry. It hurt me so much to see her in such pain.  The  hardest  thing  for  me  in  life  is  hurting  people  I  care about; it goes against who I am spiritually and emotionally. I just couldn't bear how I was feeling, and after a few moments I was telling her how much I loved her and that everything would work out between us.'
Am I Worthy of Love? 'I began a conversation with my brother about the way he treats his wife. He talks down to her and I know it really bothers her. I was hugely nervous bringing it up, and my words were getting all twisted. Then he shouted, 'Who are you to tell me how to act?! You've never had a real relationship in your
whole life!' After that, I could hardly breathe, let alone talk. All I could think about was how I wanted to get out of there.'
Suddenly, who we thought we were when we walked into the conversation is called into question.

## An Identity Quake Can Knock Us Off Balance (p135)

Internally, our Identity Conversation is in full swing: 'Maybe I am mediocre,'  'How  can  I  be  the  kind  of  person  who  causes  others pain?' or 'My brother's right. No woman has ever loved me.' In each case, it is what this conversation seems to be saying about us that rips the ground from beneath our feet.
Getting knocked off balance can even cause you to react physically in ways that make the conversation go from difficult to impossible. Images of yourself or of the future are hardwired to your adrenal response, and shaking them up can cause an unmanageable rush of anxiety or anger, or an intense desire to get away. Well-being is replaced with depression, hope with hopelessness, efficacy with fear. And all the while you're trying to engage in the extremely delicate task of communicating clearly and effectively. Your supervisor is explaining  why  you're  not  being  promoted;  you're  busy  having  your own private identity quake.

## There's No Quick Fix (p135)

You can't 'quake-proof ' your sense of self. Grappling with identity issues is what life and growth are all about, and no amount of love or accomplishment or skill can insulate you from these challenges. Seeing your husband cry when you tell him you don't want to have another child, or hearing your coach say 'Grow up' when you raise the issue of discriminatory treatment on the team, will test your sense of who you are in these relationships and in the world.
Not all identity challenges are earthshaking, but some will be. A
difficult conversation can cause you to relinquish a cherished aspect of how you see yourself. At its most profound, this can be a loss that requires mourning just as surely as the death of a loved one. There's no use pretending there's a quick fix, or that you will never again lose your balance, or that life's toughest challenges can be overcome by mastering a few easy steps.
But there is some good news. You can improve your ability to recognize  and  cope  with  identity  issues  when  they  hit.  Thinking clearly and honestly about who you are can help reduce your anxiety level during the conversation and significantly strengthen your foundation in its aftermath.

## Vulnerable Identities: The All-or-Nothing Syndrome (p136)

Getting  better  at  managing  the  Identity  Conversation  starts  with understanding the ways in which we make ourselves vulnerable to being knocked off balance. The biggest factor that contributes to a vulnerable identity is 'all-or-nothing' thinking: I'm either competent or incompetent, good or evil, worthy of love or not.
The  primary  peril  of  all-or-nothing  thinking  is  that  it  leaves our  identity  extremely  unstable,  making  us  hypersensitive  to  feedback. When faced with negative information about ourselves, all-ornothing thinking gives us only two choices for how to manage that information, both of which cause serious problems. Either we try to deny the information that is inconsistent with our self-image, or we do the opposite: we take in the information in a way that exaggerates its  importance  to  a  crippling  degree.  All-or-nothing  identities  are about as sturdy as a two-legged stool.

## Denial (p136)

Clinging  to  a  purely  positive  identity  leaves  no  place  in  our self-concept  for  negative  feedback.  If  I  think  of  myself  as  a  super-
competent person who never makes mistakes, then feedback suggesting  that  I  have  made  a  mistake  presents  a  problem.  The  only  way to  keep  my  identity  intact  is  to  deny  the  feedback - to  figure  out why it's not really true, why it doesn't really matter, or why what I did wasn't actually a mistake.
Recall the chemist who asked for a raise. Her boss responded by saying, 'I'm surprised you want to discuss this. The truth is, I've been disappointed by your performance this year.' The chemist must now decide how to internalize this information, and what this says about her  identity.  The  denial  response  might  sound  like  this:  'My  boss knows business, but not chemistry. He doesn't understand how important my contributions have been. I wish I had a boss who could appreciate just how good I am.'
Working to keep negative information out during a difficult conversation is like trying to swim without getting wet. If we're going to engage in difficult conversations, or in life for that matter, we're going to come up against information about ourselves that we find unpleasant.  Denial  requires  a  huge  amount  of  psychic  energy,  and sooner or later the story we're telling ourselves is going to become untenable. And the  bigger  the  gap  between  what  we  hope  is  true  and what we fear is true, the easier it is for us to lose our balance.

## Exaggeration (p137)

The alternative to denial is exaggeration. In all-or-nothing thinking, taking  in  negative  feedback  requires  us  not  just  to  adjust  our  selfimage, but to fl ip it. If I'm not completely competent, then I'm completely in competent:  'Maybe  I'm  not  as  creative  and  special  as  I thought  I  was.  I'll  probably  never  amount  to  anything.  Maybe  I'll even get fired.'
We Let Their Feedback Define Who We Are. When we exaggerate, we act as if the other person's feedback is the only information we have about ourselves. We put everything up for grabs, and let what they  say  dictate  how  we  see  ourselves.  We  may  turn  in  a  hundred
memos on time, but if we are criticized for being late with the 101st memo, we think to ourselves, 'I can never do anything right.' This one piece of information fills our whole identity screen.
This example may seem ridiculous, but we all think like this on occasion, and not only around dramatic or traumatic events. If the waitress gives you a funny look as she collects her tip, you're cheap. If you don't help your friends paint their house, you're selfish. If your brother says you don't visit his children enough, you're an uncaring aunt. It's easy to see why exaggeration is such a debilitating reaction.

## Ground Your Identity (p138)

Improving your ability to manage the Identity Conversation has two steps. First, you need to become familiar with those identity issues that are important to you, so you can spot them during a conversation.  Second,  you  need  to  learn  to  integrate  new  information  into your identity in ways that are healthy - a step that requires you to let go of all-or-nothing thinking.

## Step One: Become Aware of Your Identity Issues (p138)

Often during a difficult conversation we are not even aware that our identity is implicated. We know we feel anxious, fearful, or tentative, and that our ability to communicate skillfully has deserted us. Usually  articulate,  we  stumble  and  stammer;  usually  empathetic,  we can't stop interrupting and arguing; usually calm, we boil over with anger. But we aren't sure why. The connection to our identity is not obvious. It's easy to think, 'I'm talking with my brother about how he treats his wife. What does this have to do with my identity?'
What triggers an identity quake for you may not trigger one in someone else. We each have our own particular sensitivities. To become more familiar with yours, observe whether there are patterns to what tends to knock you off balance during difficult conversations, and  then  ask  yourself  why.  What  about  your  identity  feels  at  risk?
What does this mean to you? How would it feel if what you fear were true?
It may take some digging. Consider Jimmy's story. Growing up, Jimmy  developed  a  reputation  for  being  emotionally  distant.  This posture helped protect him from all the emotional shrapnel he was exposed to in his home life. Everyone else might be quick to fly off the handle, but not Jimmy. He'd be rational to a fault.
But after years on his own, Jimmy changed. He began to see the value of acknowledging and sharing his emotions, and doing so with friends and colleagues added to the richness of his life. He wanted to reveal this change to his family, but was afraid. The patterns of who he was with them were deeply etched and, though far from perfect, were  comfortable  and  predictable.  His  detachment  had  costs,  but they were familiar costs.
He discussed his fears with a friend, who asked Jimmy some hard questions:  'What  are  you  really  afraid  of?  What's  the  downside?' Jimmy's first response was that he was acting out of obligation to his family: 'Someone in my family has to be the rational one. Otherwise, it  will  be  chaos.  The  way  things  are  now,  everything  more  or  less works.'
All true, but Jimmy continued to consider his friend's questions and pushed himself for deeper answers. Eventually he discovered the fear that at some level he knew was there all along: 'What if they reject me? What if they laugh? What if they think, 'What's gotten into him?' ' Jimmy knew he'd be in for a serious identity shake-up if his parents responded badly, and he wasn't sure he wanted to risk it.
Jimmy's increased awareness of his identity concerns wasn't the end  of  the  story.  He  determined  he  would  show  greater  emotion around his family, and at first, the going was not smooth. There were awkward moments, and some members of his family wondered why he was acting differently. But Jimmy persisted, and in time a more genuine set of relationships replaced the old ones.

## Step Two: Complexify Your Identity (Adopt the And Stance) (p140)

Once you've identified which aspects of your identity are most important to you or seem most vulnerable, you can begin to complexify your self-image. This means moving away from the false choice between 'I am perfect' and 'I am worthless,' and trying to get as clear a  picture  as  you  can  about  what  is  actually  true  about  you.  As  for everyone, what is true about you is going to be a mix of good and bad behavior,  noble  and  less  noble  intentions,  and  wise  and  unwise choices you've made along the way.
For even the best and worst among us, all-or-nothing identities oversimplify the world. 'I'm always there for my children.' 'When it comes to dating, I just have bad judgment.' 'I'm always a good listener.' No one is always anything. We each exhibit a constellation of qualities, positive and negative, and constantly grapple with how to respond to the complicated situations life presents. And we don't always respond as competently or compassionately as we'd like.
Ben's fear of telling his boss that he has accepted another job is a good example of this. Is Ben loyal or is he a sellout? Both of those are simplifying labels that can't capture the complexity of the endless interactions Ben has had with the many people in his life. He has made many sacrifices for his family and many for his boss. He has worked weekends,  turned  down  other  job  offers,  worked  hard  to  help  the company recruit top talent. The list of things Ben has done that indicate loyalty is long indeed.
And, Ben is leaving his job for higher paying work elsewhere. It's reasonable for his boss to feel abandoned. That doesn't mean Ben is a bad person. It doesn't mean Ben has made a choice based on greed. He wants to put his children through college; he has been undercompensated for years and not complained.
What, then, is the bottom line on Ben? The bottom line is that there is no bottom line. Ben can feel good about many of his actions and  choices,  and  ambivalent  or  regretful  about  others.  Life  is  too complex for any reasonable person to feel otherwise. Indeed, a self-
image that allows for complexity is healthy and robust; it provides a sturdy foundation on which to stand.

## Three Things to Accept About Yourself (p141)

No doubt, there are some aspects of who you are that you will struggle with for a lifetime. When you look inside, you won't always like what you see, and you'll find that accepting those parts of yourself takes  serious  work.  But  as  you  move  away  from  an  all-or-nothing identity and toward a more complex view of who you are, you'll notice that it is easier to accept certain parts of yourself that have given you trouble in the past.
There are three characteristics that are particularly important to be able to accept about yourself in difficult conversations. The more easily you can admit to your own mistakes, your own mixed intentions, and your own contributions to the problem, the more balanced you will feel during the conversation, and the higher the chances it will go well.
You Will Make Mistakes. If you can't admit to yourself that you sometimes make mistakes, you'll find it more difficult to understand  and  accept  the  legitimate  aspects  of  the  other  person's  story about what is going on.
Consider what happened between Rita and Isaiah. 'It's important to me to be trustworthy - someone friends can really talk to,' Rita explains. 'That's part of being a good friend. Isaiah, one of my co-workers, confided in me that he was struggling with alcoholism, and  I  promised  to  keep  it  confidential.  But  I  knew  that  a  mutual friend had faced many of the same issues in the past, and so I talked with her about Isaiah's problem, to get some advice.
'Then Isaiah found out, and he was really furious. At first, I kept trying to explain that I was trying to help, and that my friend could be a valuable resource. Eventually I realized that the reason I was arguing was that I couldn't admit to myself that I had violated his trust,
plain and simple. I didn't live up to my word. Once I was able to admit to myself that I made a mistake, Isaiah and I began to get somewhere in our conversation.'
When you hold yourself to an all-or-nothing standard, even a small mistake can seem catastrophic and almost impossible to admit. If you are busy trying to shore up your 'no mistakes, no failures' identity, you won't be able to engage in a meaningful learning conversation. And if you can't do that, you are likely to make the same mistakes again.
One reason people are reluctant to admit mistakes is that they fear being seen as weak or incompetent. Yet often, generally competent people who take the possibility of mistakes in stride are seen as confident,  secure,  and  'big  enough'  not  to  have  to  be  perfect, whereas those who resist acknowledging even the possibility of a mistake are seen as insecure and lacking confidence. No one is fooled.
Your  Intentions  Are  Complex. Sometimes  we  get  nervous about upcoming conversations because we know that our past behavior was not always motivated by good intentions.
Consider the situation that Sally and her boyfriend, Evan, find themselves in. Sally wants to break up with Evan, but is afraid that he will accuse her of just using him to get through a lonely period. Before Sally claims that her intentions were purely positive, she should think honestly about whether they actually were. Although in the big picture Sally didn't want to hurt Evan and wasn't acting maliciously, there was at least a bit of selfishness in Sally's behavior.
By being honest with herself about the complexity of her motivations, Sally has a better chance of staying on her feet if the accusation of having bad intentions arises. And she can respond in a way that is genuine:  'As  I  think  about  it,  some  of  what  you're  saying  makes sense. I was lonely, and being with you helped. I don't think that was my only reason for wanting to be with you. I did hope it would work out. There are lots of pieces to what was going on for me.'
You Have Contributed to the Problem. A third crucial step for grounding yourself involves assessing and taking responsibility for what you've contributed to the problem.
This  is  not  always  easy  to  do.  Walker  recently  learned  that his  daughter  Annie  Mae  is  struggling  with  an  eating  disorder.  Her college  advisor  called,  letting  Walker  know  that  Annie  Mae  had checked herself into the university health clinic. Walker called to see how Annie Mae was, but couldn't seem to get past the surface exchange of 'How are you doing, kiddo?' and 'I'll be okay, Dad.'
Walker  wants  to  have  a  more  genuine  conversation,  but  he's afraid. He suspects that at least some of the issues Annie Mae is dealing with are connected to their relationship. He suspects Annie Mae thinks he was not a good father, and he fears that she might for the first time tell him so. And that prospect terrifies him.
Up  until  now,  without  knowing  for  sure  what  his  daughter thinks, Walker has been able to live with the hope that he's been a good father. He'd like nothing more than for that to be true. But he suspects that the truth is more complex. After all, he was away a lot, he  wasn't  as  supportive  as  he  might  have  been,  and  he  made promises to Annie Mae that he didn't always keep.
Walker has two options. He can try to tiptoe through the conversations  with  his  daughter,  hoping  against  hope  that  Annie  Mae doesn't raise the issue of how he has contributed to their troubled relationship and her current illness. Or he can work through some of his identity issues in advance and accept in his own heart his contribution to their problems.
It won't be easy. In fact, it may be the toughest thing Walker ever does. But if he's able to accept himself and his actions for what they are, and to take responsibility for them, both in his own mind and when talking with Annie Mae, he'll probably find that over time his conversations  with  his  daughter  become  easier.  And,  more  important, Walker will find that he no longer needs to hide. His conversations with Annie Mae won't be fraught with the potential to strike at his all-or-nothing identity as a good father. He can say to his daughter, 'I wish I'd been there for you more often. I'm so sorry and sad that I wasn't,' and can approach her with compassion instead of fear.

## During the Conversation: Learn to Regain Your Balance (p144)

After observing O Sensei, the founder of Aikido, sparring with an accomplished fighter, a young student said to the master, 'You never lose your balance. What is your secret?'
'You are wrong,' O Sensei replied. 'I am constantly losing my balance. My skill lies in my ability to regain it.'
So it is with difficult conversations. Working through your identity issues is extremely helpful. And still, the conversation will bring its  share  of  surprises,  testing  your  self-image  in  ways  you  hadn't counted on. The question is not whether you will get knocked over. You will. The real question is whether you are able to get back on your feet and keep the conversation moving in a productive direction.
Four things you can do before and during a difficult conversation to help yourself maintain and regain your balance include: letting go of trying to control their reaction, preparing for their response, imagining the future to gain perspective, and if you lose your balance, taking a break.

## Let Go of Trying to Control Their Reaction (p144)

Especially in conversations that implicate important identity issues, you may already feel conflicted or ashamed, and you may want to avoid  the  extra  pressure  of  a  bad  reaction  from  the  other  person. 'Whatever happens,' you think, 'I just don't want them to get upset, and I especially don't want them to be upset at me.' You feel bad enough about yourself; a bad reaction from them would make things unbearable. As a result, you may hold as one of your primary goals getting through the conversation without the other person having a 'bad' reaction.
There's  nothing  wrong  (and  plenty  right)  with  not  wanting  to hurt someone, or wanting them to like you even after you convey bad news. Yet holding this as a purpose in the conversation leads to trou-
ble. Just as you can't change another person, you can't control their reaction - and you shouldn't try.
When you tell your kids that you and their mother are getting a divorce, they are likely to be upset. How could they not be? Because you care for them, it is natural to want to minimize their hurt at this news. But there is also likely to be an element of self -protection in this  urge:  'I  just  hope  they  don't  cry  or  get  angry  or  withdraw  or argue,' you think, in part because of how that would make you feel about yourself: 'Maybe I'm a rotten dad, as well as a lousy husband.' Trying to control their reaction can seem like a way to avoid the difficult work of accepting your contribution to what's happening - with the resulting painful impact on your identity.
But trying to smooth over or stifle the other person's reaction will make things worse, not better. It's understandable that you'd want the kids to feel that the divorce won't be all that bad, or to persuade your employee that being fired is really an opportunity for her to find a better fit for her skills. Yet even if your rosy predictions turn out to be true in the longer term, dismissing the feelings that the other person is experiencing in the moment is disastrous. You may intend the message 'Everything will be all right,' but the message the other person is likely to hear is 'I don't understand how you feel' or worse, 'You're not allowed to be upset by this.'
When delivering bad news-indeed, in any difficult conversation -rather than trying to control the other person's reaction, adopt the And Stance. You can come in with the purpose of letting your children know about the divorce, letting them know how much you love and care about them, letting them know that you honestly believe things will be okay, and giving them space to feel however they are feeling and letting them know their feelings make sense and are okay to feel. This gives you control over everything you can actually control (yourself), and gives them space to be honest in response.
The same dynamic applies to giving bad news at work. When you fire someone, that person will likely be upset, and possibly upset at you. Don't measure the success of the conversation by whether or not they get upset. It's their right to be upset, and it's a reasonable response. Better instead to go in with the purposes of giving them the
news, of taking responsibility for your part in this outcome (but not more), of showing that you care about how they feel, and of trying to be helpful going forward.
Learning that you can't control the other person's reaction, and that it can be destructive to try, can be incredibly liberating. It not only gives the other person the space to react however they need to, but  also  takes  a  huge  amount  of  pressure  off  you.  You  will  learn things about yourself based on their reaction, but if you are prepared to learn, you'll feel free from the desperate need for their reaction to go one certain way.

## Prepare for Their Response (p146)

Instead of trying to control the other person's reaction, prepare for it. Take time in advance to imagine the conversation. Instead of focusing on how badly it will go - which may be your tendency when you are fretting late at night over whether to raise it - focus on what you can learn about how the other person might respond. Are they likely to cry? Sulk and withdraw? Pretend everything is fine? Attack or reject you?
And  then  consider  whether  any  of  these  responses  implicate identity issues for you. If so, imagine they respond in the most difficult  manner possible,  and  ask  yourself,  'What  do  I  think  this  says about me?' Work through the identity issues in advance: 'Is it okay for me to make someone cry? How will I respond? What if they attack my character or motivations? Then how would I respond?' The more prepared you are for how the other person might react, the less surprised you'll be. If you've already considered the identity implications of how they might react, you are far less likely to be knocked off balance in the moment.

## Imagine That It's Three Months Or Ten Years From Now (p147)

Getting some perspective on yourself is hard when the world is looking bleak and you're feeling confused, dejected, unlovable, or unemployable.  Sometimes  projecting  yourself  into  your  own  future  can help you feel better about what's happening now with the reassurance that eventually you'll feel better, and that someday it may not seem so important.
Thinking of your future self looking back can also give you some direction. If you're in the midst of a particularly painful time, think about what it will feel like to look back on this period in your life from thirty years hence. What do you think you'll have learned from the experience? How will you feel about how you handled it? What advice can the you of thirty years from now give to the you that is facing the pain?

## Take a Break (p147)

Sometimes you'll find that you are just too close to the problem and too  overwhelmed  by  your  internal  identity  quake  to  engage  effectively in the conversation. You're not at a place where you can take in more information or untangle your thoughts. Maintaining the charade of participation in the conversation at times like this is unlikely to be helpful to anyone.
Ask for some time to think about what you've heard: 'I'm surprised  by  your  reaction  to  this  and  would  like  some  time  to  think about what you've said.' Even ten minutes can help. Take a walk. Get some air. Check for distortions. Spend some quiet time weighing their attack on your judgment or arrogance against other information you have about yourself. Check for denial. In what ways is what they are  saying  true?  Check  for  exaggerations.  What  is  the  worst  that could happen here? And what might you do right now to turn the conversation around?
Some people find asking for a break embarrassing. But postponing  the  conversation  until  you've  regained  your  balance  may  save you from worse things than embarrassment down the road.

## Their Identity Is Also Implicated (p148)

When we're wrapped up in our own Identity Conversation it can be difficult  to  remember that the other person may be grappling with identity issues of their own. Certainly as Walker tries to talk with Annie  Mae  about  her  illness,  she'll  be  absorbed  in  her  own  Identity Conversation.  Simply  being  in  the  clinic  because  something  is 'wrong' with her may in her mind confirm her greatest fear - that she  will  never  be  good  enough  or  achieve  enough  to  please  her father.
One important way Walker can help his daughter is to lead her away from all-or-nothing thinking. He can help provide balance to her self-image by letting her know that everyone needs help sometimes.  And  he  can  remind  her  of  the  positive  things  that  are  true about her and important to him: 'I'm proud of you for getting help,' he might say to Annie Mae. And he can remind her that he loves her not because she gets all A's in school, but because she's his daughter. And that won't change no matter what.

## Raising Identity Issues Explicitly (p148)

Sometimes  your  identity  issues  will  be  important  to  you,  but  not terribly relevant to the person you are talking to, or to the relationship generally. You don't need to tell your new colleague that he reminds you of a former boyfriend with whom you had a bad sexual experience. It's useful for you to be aware of it, but talking about it explicitly probably won't move your conversations forward. You can identify the issue in your own mind and recognize that it's something for you to work out on your own.
Other times, making the Identity Conversation explicit can help you get directly to the heart of what is going on: 'What I'm sensing this  is  all  about  is  whether  I'm  a  good  spouse  or  not.  Is  that  how you're  feeling  too?'  'I've  always  regretted  not  saying  something  at Dad's funeral. That's why it's so important for me to speak at Mom's.' 'I'm sensitive to criticism of my writing style. I know I need the feedback,  but  it's  something  for  both  of  us  to  be  aware  of  as  we  work through these memos.'
You'll be astounded how  often difficult conversations are wrapped up in both people reacting to what the conversation seems to be saying about them.

## Find the Courage to Ask for Help (p149)

Sometimes life deals us a blow that we can't cope with on our own. What constitutes such a blow is different for each of us. It may be something as undermining as rape or as horrifying as war. It may be a physical or mental illness, an addiction, or a profound loss. Or it may be something that would not disturb most other people but does disturb you.
We sometimes ascribe valor to those who suffer in silence. But when suffering is prolonged or interferes with accomplishing what we want with our lives,  then  such  suffering  may  be  more  reckless than brave. Whatever it is, if you've worked to get over it and can't, we  encourage  you  to  ask  for  help.  From  friends,  from  colleagues, from family, from professionals. From anyone who might be able to offer a hand.
For many of us, that's not easy. Our Identity Conversation tells us loud and clear that asking for help is not okay - that it is shameful or weak and creates burdens on others. These thoughts are powerful, but ask yourself this: If someone you loved - an uncle or daughter, a favorite colleague - were in the situation you find yourself in, would you think it was okay for them to ask for help? Why should you be held to a different standard?
If part of your identity is believing that you don't need help, then asking  for  it  is  never  going  to  be  easy.  And  when  you  do  ask,  not everyone will come through for you, and that will be painful. But many people  will.  And  by  trusting  them  enough  to  ask,  you  offer them  an  extraordinary  opportunity  to  do  something  important  for someone they care about. Then one day, you may have the opportunity to return the favor.

## Create a Learning Conversation (p151)


## 7 (p153)


## What's Your Purpose? When to Raise It and When to Let Go (p153)

You can't have every difficult conversation you come across. Life is too short, the list too long. So how do you decide when to have a conversation, for the first time or the fifteenth? And how do you let go of the issues you decide not to raise?
These are the questions that torment us as we lie awake listening to that barking dog next door. We've spent the first half of this book talking about what you might raise. We'll spend the next half outlining how. But before we get to that, is there anything we can say about when?

## To Raise or Not to Raise: How to Decide? (p153)

It would be easy if there were some hard-and-fast rules about when to raise issues and when to leave well enough alone. 'Never talk politics at the dinner table,' 'Whatever you do, don't raise anything before 8 a.m.,' and 'Never disagree with your boss' have the advantage of being clear rules. They're also nonsense, and so not particularly helpful.
Whether or not you should raise an issue with your husband or your agent or your mechanic is ultimately something only you can
decide. Because the specifics of each situation are different, there is no simple rule we can offer to guide you in making a wise decision. What we can offer are a few questions and suggestions to help you sort through whether and how you might initiate a conversation.

## How Do I Know I've Made the Right Choice? (p154)

When we're trying to decide whether or not to raise something, we often think, 'I wish I were better at making up my mind. If only I were smarter, this wouldn't be so hard for me.' The truth is, there is no 'right choice.' There is no way to know in advance how things will  really  turn  out.  So  don't  spend  your  time  looking  for  the  one right  answer  about  what  to  do.  It's  not  only  a  useless  standard,  it's crippling.
Instead, hold as your goal to think clearly as you take on the task of making a considered choice. That is as good as any of us can do.

## Work Through the Three Conversations (p154)

In every case, work through the Three Conversations as best you can. Get a better handle on your feelings, key identity issues, and possible distortions or gaps in your perceptions. Think clearly about what you do know (your own feelings, your own experiences and story, your identity issues), and what you don't know (their intentions, their perspective, or feelings).
This approach will help you become more aware of the process of communication and gain insight into what's making your conversations difficult. Sometimes the insights you find will present a clear answer: 'Raising this is important, and now I have some ideas about how to do it differently' or 'Now I'm starting to see why having a conversation probably won't help.'

## Three Kinds of Conversations That Don't Make Sense (p155)

As  you  consider  whether  to  engage,  you'll  find  that  while  it  often makes sense to initiate a conversation, sometimes it doesn't. In making that choice wisely, three key questions stand out.

## Is the Real Conflict Inside You? (p155)

Sometimes what's difficult about the situation has a whole lot more to do with what's going on inside you than what's going on between you and the other person. In that case, a conversation focused on the interaction isn't going to be very illuminating or productive, at least until you've had a longer conversation with yourself.
Insight into her Identity Conversation helped Carmen resolve a running dispute with her husband over responsibility for managing a variety of kid-related activities, such as carpool schedules, doctor's appointments, and piano lessons:
Despite the fact that I was working full-time to support the family while Tom stayed home with the kids, I was still doing much of the scheduling and running around. I felt like Tom wasn't responsible enough. As I saw it, he kept dropping the ball; I had to pick it up to make sure things ran smoothly.
But when I began sorting through my Identity Conversation, I started seeing the ways in which I was keeping control of this part of the kids' lives - perhaps because of my ambivalence about working full-time. I love my job. I'm good at it, and I make decent money. But I'm still nagged by guilt, and there are times when I'm jealous that  my  daughter  often  goes  to  Tom  with  problems  before  she comes to me.
Once  Carmen  realized  that  taking  responsibility  for  the  scheduling  was  her  way  of  assuring  herself  that  she  was  still  a  good
mother-still involved and essential to her children's well-being she was able to let go of the resentment she felt when things got hectic:  'I  both  turned  some  things  over  to  Tom  and  shifted  the  way  I thought about these responsibilities. They are things I've chosen to take on to stay involved, rather than things he's let slide.'

## Is There a Better Way to Address the Issue Than Talking About It? (p156)

As you sort out your feelings or identify your contribution to a situation it may become clear that what's called for is not a conversation about the interaction, but a change in your behavior. Sometimes actions are better than words.
Walter  had  endured  a  series  of  difficult  conversations  with  his mother over the family farm, located in northern Missouri. He tells the following story:
Since dad died, my brothers have been helping my mother run the place. Whenever I talk with her she asks when I'm going to come home  and  join  the  family  business - or  at  least  take  old  Doc Denny's job as the town doctor.
I enjoy living in St. Louis, where I have a terrific pediatric practice, so the conversation I thought I needed to have more successfully was telling my mother to leave the issue alone, to accept that I'm not coming back -at least not anytime soon.
But as I sorted through the Three Conversations, I discovered some things. I realized that in addition to feeling frustrated and resentful when my mother raises this issue, I also felt appreciative that she misses me, and grateful that I have roots and the option to return. And I felt sad that my kids weren't developing the close relationship  with  their  grandmother  that  my  nieces  have,  and  were missing out on the chance to grow up on a farm, which was a wonderful experience for me.
One of the most important insights came from imagining my mother's perceptions and feelings. Suddenly it occurred to me that what my mom was really saying was that she missed knowing what was going on with me - being a part of our lives. She wanted me to
bring my family back so that she could be more connected and involved with us. But when she would express this by asking when I'd be  coming  home,  I  usually  reacted  by  cutting  the  conversation short. Then I wouldn't call her for weeks on end, simply because I dreaded having to discuss the issue again. So I ended up contributing to her feeling even more disconnected -which in turn would prompt her to express how much she missed us, and we'd go around again.
Once Walter sorted out this contribution system and the complexity of his feelings, he realized that he didn't need to have a conversation  with  his  mother  about  how  often  she  asked  if  he  was coming  home.  He  first  needed  to  change  his  contribution  to  the problem.
I  began phoning mom more often, sending her short notes about the kids' activities, and inviting her to visit in St. Louis just for fun, rather than for a holiday or family event. When she raised the question of when I might come home, instead of cutting the conversation short, I shared how satisfying my practice was. I also described my feelings of regret and confusion about not getting to spend more time with the family, and wishing the kids could spend more time with her. This prompted an invitation for my daughters to spend the summer with their cousins on the farm. Slowly, the questions about my return decreased.
And, not surprisingly, Walter grew closer to his mother.
Sometimes a conversation is simply not worth the time, or not even possible. But you still want to do something. Fran, who is a successful workers' rights lobbyist, had an upsetting exchange with a toll collector on her daily commute. Fran prefers to keep only quarters in her change drawer to pay the fifty-cent toll, so she doesn't have to search in the dark and take her eyes off the road to find the right change. Accordingly, on those occasions when she pays with a dollar bill, she prefers to receive quarters as change. When a toll collector offers  nickels  and  dimes as change, Fran gives it back and asks for quarters.
Generally  the  collectors  are  fine  about  this,  but  yesterday  the man collecting snapped, 'Where do rich people like you get off feeling so high-and-mighty entitled? Doesn't it even occur to you that I might be giving you dimes for a reason?' Flustered, Fran responded, 'Well, yes, but it just seems to me that you're in a better position to have change than I am.' To which the collector replied as he slapped two quarters in her hand, 'You don't have the first idea what my job is  like.  And you don't care either! Go on.' Speechless and furious, Fran drove on.
Reflecting  on  this  exchange  at  home,  Fran  realized  that  her anger stemmed largely from denial of several unpleasant truths: she definitely was feeling entitled, even a little righteously so, when she demanded her quarters;  it hadn't occurred  to  her  to  wonder  what constraints the collector was operating under; and from the collector's  point  of  view  she  does  appear  wealthy.  All  of  which  conflicts with important aspects of how she likes to see herself. She still didn't like how the collector had behaved, but she could imagine being in his  shoes  at  the  end  of  a  long  day  with  an  endless  line  of  cars stretched out before him.
The  upshot  for  Fran  was  that  she  no  longer  felt  angry,  and stopped  fantasizing  about  defending  herself  to  this  man  when  she next met him at the toll booth. She also saw her experience as part of a more complex picture. She still wanted to do something about the situation, but a different approach seemed in order. So she wrote the Turnpike Authority a letter explaining her interests in being able to receive quarters as change without putting the toll collectors in a difficult situation, and asking what could be done to ensure that. To her pleasant surprise, she got a reply explaining that the toll collectors were allowed to bring only a certain amount of change to the booth and  were  prohibited  from  leaving  the  booth  except  at  designated times. The Toll Authority thanked her for raising the issue, and explained how they had found a creative solution to meet her request and ease the dilemma for their collectors.

## Do You Have Purposes That Make Sense? (p159)

Imagine asking the head of NASA about the purpose of a particular space  mission,  and  getting  the  answer:  'Um,  I  don't  know.  We thought we'd launch someone into space and figure things out from there.'
Not likely. Yet we often launch into our conversations in much the same way. We find ourselves in the middle of the conversation, and neither person is quite sure what the point is or what a good outcome would look like.
Other  times  we  try  having  conversations  when  our  purposes are simply off-base. When that happens, whatever you say or do is not going to help (and might even make things worse), because you've chosen a destination that is impossible to reach.
Remember, You Can't Change Other People. In many situations, our purpose in initiating a conversation is to get the other person to change. There's nothing wrong with hoping for change. The urge to change others is universal. We want them to be more loving, to show more appreciation for our hard work, to give us more personal  space,  or  to  be  more  social  at  parties.  To  accept  our  career choice or our sexual orientation. To believe in our God or our views on important issues of the day.
The  problem  is, we  can't  make  these  things  happen. We can't change someone else's mind or force them to change their behavior. If we could, many difficult conversations would simply vanish. We'd say, 'Here are the reasons you should love me more,' and they'd say, 'Now that I know those reasons, I do.'
But we know things don't work that way. Changes in attitudes and  behavior  rarely  come  about  because  of  arguments,  facts,  and attempts  to  persuade.  How  often  do you change  your  values  and beliefs - or  whom  you  love  or  what  you  want  in  life - based  on something someone tells you? And how likely are you to do so when the person who is trying to change you doesn't seem fully aware of the reasons you see things differently in the first place?
We can have an influence, but  here  we  need  to  be  especially careful. The paradox is that trying to change someone rarely results in change. On the other hand, engaging someone in a conversation where mutual learning is the goal often results in change. Why? Because when we set out to try to change someone, we are more likely to argue with and attack their story and less likely to listen. This approach increases the likelihood  that  they  will  feel  defensive  rather than  open  to  learning  something  new.  They  are  more  likely  to change if they think we understand them and if they feel heard and respected. They are more likely to change if they feel free not to.
Don't  Focus  on  Short-Term  Relief  at  Long-Term  Cost. Another common mistake is acting to relieve psychological tension in the short term at the cost of creating a worse situation in the future.
Janet learned this the hard way. With twenty years of experience in  nonprofit  financial  management,  she  never  thought  she'd  be brought to  tears  by  a  board  member  questioning  her  competence. But  here  she  was.  Finally,  sick  of  feeling  attacked  each  time  she presented  the  budget  numbers,  she  decided  to  confront  the  board member, a woman named Sylvie. It did not go well. Janet explains:
Looking  back,  although  I  was  saying  some  of  the  right  things taking responsibility for my contribution and so forth - I think what I really wanted to do was tell her off. I wanted her to feel as small as I had. And I wanted to let her know that she couldn't treat me this way.
Oh, I let her have it. And I walked out of the meeting feeling great . . . for about fifteen minutes. Then I started to regret some of the  things  I'd  said,  and  realized  that  I'd  just  made  the  situation worse  by  feeding  the  antagonism  between  us.  The  fact  was,  she could treat  me  this  way,  and  I'd  just  made  it  more  likely  that  she would.
If your purpose is to change the other person or their behavior, to vent or tell them off, then having this conversation is quite likely to produce many of the negative consequences you fear. Saying 'You
are insensitive/unreliable/unacceptable' will jeopardize the relationship. You will probably hurt the other person's feelings, provoke a defensive reaction, or get yourself fired.
This is not to say that Janet is stuck being mistreated by Sylvie without  any  way  to  address  the  situation.  Janet  might  have  a  constructive conversation with Sylvie if she can shift her purposes a bit. If Janet can negotiate herself into a place of curiosity about why Sylvie reacts as she does, this could be a worthwhile conversation. Janet can see  it  as  an  opportunity  to  learn  Sylvie's  story,  share  her  own,  and then figure out how they might work together better. Is it something Janet is doing? Is Sylvie aware of the impact she's having on Janet? Is this the way Sylvie has gotten results in the past? What advice can Janet offer Sylvie on how to get a better reaction from her?
If Janet can come into the conversation with this kind of curiosity stance toward Sylvie's view, the conversation is much less likely to provoke a bad reaction or to damage the relationship. Janet would be investing in the relationship by trying to work with Sylvie in figuring out why things have been so difficult.
Negotiating  with  yourself  to  shift  your  purposes  can lower  the threshold of how risky the conversation is likely to be and improve the odds of a constructive outcome.
Don't Hit-and-Run. Often, when we have something important to say, we say it now because now is when it's causing us frustration. Most of us are thoughtful enough to avoid the most egregious errors of bad timing. If someone tells us they've just returned from the doctor's office and are going to have to have that operation after all, few of us would say, 'I'm sorry to hear that. Oh, by the way, you still owe me $500.'
However, there's another error around timing that we do make. It's the hit-and-run. An employee wanders into work late, something you've been meaning to talk to them about, so you say, 'Late again, eh?' and leave it at that. Or you visit your son for the weekend, notice the empty beer bottles in the garbage, and say, 'I see you're still drinking up a storm.'
These comments are intended to help. You hope your employee
or your son will take the message to heart. But while your comments may help you feel a bit better ('At least I've said something'), they make the other person defensive and frustrated, which is unlikely to produce the kind of change you had in mind.
A good rule to follow is: If you're going to talk, talk. Really talk. And if you're really going to talk, you can't do it on the fly. You have to plan a time to talk. You have to be explicit about wanting ten minutes or an hour to discuss something that is important to you. You can't  have  a  real  conversation  in  thirty  seconds,  and  anything  less than a real conversation isn't going to help. If hit-and-run is all you can muster, it's better not to raise the issue at all.

## Letting Go (p162)

The approach in this book can help you accomplish a number of astonishing results. You'll make better decisions about when bringing something  up  just  doesn't  make  sense,  at  least  until  you've  sorted through some of your own issues or tried changing your own contribution. And when you choose to engage, you'll slowly get better at staying  out  of  your  own  way - spotting  and  side-stepping  the  ways you used to trip yourself up. Over time, you'll lessen your own anxiety and deepen your most important relationships.
But this  approach  is  not  magic.  Sometimes - despite  our  very best efforts - nothing helps. You can't force the other person to want to invest in the relationship or work things out. No matter how many times you explain to your son how worried you are when he doesn't call, he may not call. Your boss may continue to lose his temper. Your mother may never come to understand how emotionally abandoned you felt when you were young.
Sometimes you consider your purposes and some possible strategies, and decide not to have the conversation. Holding onto the issues inside the relationship becomes too painful or too exhausting, so you move on. You are able to let go.
Other times, it's not that easy. For one reason or another, even
though you think it's the better choice not to engage with the issue, the situation has you by the throat. The story inside your head still carries emotional punch; you experience a flood of emotions every time you think about it. You've decided to move on, but your emotions have dug in their heels.
Some people say letting go is a choice. Others think it happens only  when  the  conditions  are  right - after  contrition  has  been shown, after you've found a new relationship, or after you've been forgiven. What does it take to be able truly to let go? To open your palm and  let  the  bitterness  and  exasperation  and  hurt  and  shame  sift through your fingers?
We don't presume to know. And we're suspicious of anyone who thinks there's an easy formula. Probably, it is something different for each of us.
What we do know is that letting go usually takes time, and that it is rarely a simple journey. It's not easy to find a place where you can set free the pain, or shame, you carry from your experiences. A place where you can tell  the  story  differently  in  your  head - where  you can relinquish the role of victim or villain, and give yourself and the other  person  roles  that  are  more  complex  and  liberating.  A  place where you can accept yourself for who you've been and who you are.
If someone tells you that you should have gotten over something or someone by now, don't believe it. Believing there's some appropriate  time  frame  for  getting  over  something  is  just  one  more  way  to keep yourself stuck. But neither should you believe that there's nothing you can do to enable yourself to let go, or that it just takes time. There's plenty you can do to help yourself down that road.

## Adopt Some Liberating Assumptions (p163)

A  good  place  to  start  is  in  the  Identity  Conversation,  challenging some of the common assumptions that can get in the way of letting go and being at peace with our choices. Four liberating assumptions are presented below.
It's Not My Responsibility to Make Things Better; It's My Responsibility to Do My Best. For Karenna, the key to closure was letting go of the fantasy that things could be better:
I've failed at relationships before, and I so wanted this one to work. But I didn't just want it to work. Somewhere along the way, I decided it had to work, no matter what, and that it was my job to make it happen. I tried everything, and maybe I should have gotten out of the  relationship  sooner.  But  it  was  hard  to  let  go  of  the  idea  that things between Paul and me might have worked out, if only I'd been a better person, or said the right thing at the right time, or worked harder at it, or something.
In  Karenna's  situation,  part  of  the  process  of  letting  go  of  the guilt and sadness she carried was accepting that sometimes there are limits - you cannot always make a relationship more comfortable or more nourishing or more intimate or more durable. The best you can do is try.
They  Have  Limitations  Too. Sometimes  you'll  tell  the  other person about your feelings and perspectives, or about the impact they are having on you, and they say they understand, and you each agree to  change  your  behavior.  Then  they  do  whatever  annoys  you  yet again, and you think, 'Well, now they know that this aggravates me. So what's the story? Am I not important enough to them? Are they trying to drive me nuts? What am I to make of this?'
One thing you can make of it is that they are as imperfect as you are. No matter how clearly you share how much their drinking hurts you, their forgetfulness aggravates you, or their unresponsiveness saddens you, they may not have the capacity to be different, at least not right now.
After a lifetime of being a big sister, Alison couldn't change being bossy overnight even if she wanted to. At some point, her younger brother may find it easier to accept her as her imperfect, bossy self than to continue to fight with her. He can work through the identity
issues that make it easy for Alison to get to him, and love her for the things about her that he likes and admires.
This Conflict Is Not Who I Am. An important barrier to letting go occurs when we integrate the conflict into our sense of who we are. In our mind's eye, we are the least favorite son, the long-suffering wife, part of the oppressed group. We define ourselves in relation to our conflict with others.
Over the last four years the leadership in Rob's firm has split over several key strategic questions. Part of the 'losing' faction, Rob's professional identity has been all but consumed by being one of the few still holding out, standing up to management. Now in the wake of a sudden merger, Rob's faction has been handed control, and the satisfaction he feels is mingled with uneasiness. No longer playing the opposition, Rob is not sure how to see himself. Rob's sense of self was perhaps too aligned with his role in the conflict.
Such dynamics play an important part in ethnic conflict. Our sense of who we are as a community is often defined in terms of who we are not, who we are against, and what hardships we've endured. Tragically, we can feel threatened by the prospect of reconciliation, because it can rob us not only of our role, but also of our communal identity.
These kinds of situations are notoriously difficult to manage because we don't want to give up who we are unless there is something better to replace it. If you find yourself being swallowed up by a conflict,  if  you  begin  to  see  your  very  identity  as  tied  to  the  fight,  try to take a step back and remember why you are fighting. You are fighting for what is right and fair, not because you need the conflict to survive.
Letting Go Doesn't Mean I No Longer Care. Often we are unable to let go because we fear that if we do, it will mean we no longer care. If you and your sister weren't at odds, how would you show how important she is to you, or know that you're just as significant in her life? Is it possible to let go and still care enormously?
David has wrestled with this issue more deeply than most:
When my brother was murdered, I didn't think I could ever forgive the man who shot him-over something as stupid as a drink in a poker  game.  And  I  have  to  admit  that  I  was  also  angry  with  my brother for being there.
I didn't attend the trial. I couldn't. For years every time I would be reminded of my brother, the fury and pain of the injustice of his death would surge through me. In my mind, I would have conversations with my brother in which I'd tell him not only how sad I was, but how angry I was at him for being so foolish, and for abandoning me.
It's  only recently that I've begun to see the power in forgiving each of them-my brother and the man who murdered him. Letting go of my rage and indignation doesn't mean I have to let go of my love for my brother or my sense of loss. There's nothing I can do about it, and I've finally accepted that. I'll never get over losing my brother. I still talk to him. But the conversations aren't so hard. I can miss him terribly without the clutter of so many other feelings.
David's story shows us the power of being able to let go of anger while still holding on to love and memories. David can't and doesn't want to forget what happened. He's learned a great deal from the experience, painful as it was, that he applies to his relationships with his children and others. And yet in letting go and forgiving, some of the emotional burden he's carried since the tragedy has eased.
Even in situations much more mundane than David's, letting go of the emotions and identity issues wrapped up in a difficult conversation can be one of the most challenging things you do. Difficult conversations operate at the core of our being - where the people and the principles we care about most intersect with our self-image and self-esteem. Letting go, at heart, is about how to handle with skill and grace not having a difficult conversation.
Of course, the better you become at engaging difficult conversations, the less there will be for you to let go of. One key to improving is having sound purposes.

## If You Raise It: Three Purposes That Work (p167)

We've talked about purposes that will get you into trouble. But how about purposes that make sense? The gold standard here is working for mutual understanding. Not mutual agreement, necessarily, but a better understanding of each of your stories, so that you can make informed decisions (alone or together) about what to do next.
Anytime you think a conversation might be difficult, keep the following three purposes front and center in your consciousness.

## 1. Learning Their Story (p167)

Exploring  the  other  person's  perspective  takes  us  into  each  of  the Three Conversations. What information do they see that we missed or  don't  have  access  to?  What  past  experiences  influence  them? What is their reasoning for why they did what they did? What were their  intentions?  How did our actions impact them? What do they think  we  are  contributing  to  the  problem?  What  are  they  feeling? What does this situation mean to them? How does it affect their identity? What's at stake?

## 2. Expressing Your Views and Feelings (p167)

Your goal should be to express your views and feelings to your own satisfaction. You hope that the other person will understand what you are saying, and perhaps be moved by it, but you can't count on that. What you can do is say, as well as you can, what is important for you to say about your views, intentions, contributions, feelings, and identity issues. You can share your story.

## 3. Problem-Solving Together (p168)

Given what you and the other person have each learned, what would improve the  situation  going  forward?  Can  you  brainstorm  creative ways to satisfy both of your needs? Where your needs conflict, can you use equitable standards to ensure a fair and workable way to resolve the conflict?

## Stance and Purpose Go Hand in Hand (p168)

These three purposes accommodate the fact that you and the other person see the world differently, that you each have powerful feelings about what is going on, and that you each have your own identity issues to work through. Each of you, in short, has your own story. You need purposes that can reckon with this reality.
These are the purposes that emerge from a learning stance, from working through the Three Conversations and shifting your internal orientation  from  certainty  to  curiosity,  from  debate  to  exploration, from simplicity to complexity, from 'either/or' to 'and.' They may seem simple-perhaps even simplistic. But their straightforwardness masks both the difficulty involved in doing them well and the power they have to transform the way you handle your conversations.
Working from a learning stance with these purposes in mind, the rest of this book explores in detail how to conduct a learning conversation, from getting started to getting unstuck.

## Getting Started: Begin from the Third Story (p169)

The most stressful moment of a difficult conversation is often the beginning. We may learn in the first few seconds that the news for us is not good, that the other person sees things very differently, that we aren't  likely  to  get  what  we  want.  They  may  become  angry  or  distraught or we may discover that they don't want to talk to us at all.
But while the beginning is fraught with peril, it is also an opportunity. It's when you have the greatest leverage to influence the entire direction of the conversation. Sure, you can begin in a way that sends things careening into a brick wall; we've all done that. But it doesn't have to go that way. What you say at the outset can put you squarely on the road toward understanding and problem-solving. There are techniques you can learn for how to take advantage of the opportunity the beginning presents, and simple principles for understanding why your usual approaches so often go awry.
How to begin a conversation? Let's first consider how not to.

## Why Our Typical Openings Don't Help (p169)

One way or another, if we are going to have a conversation, we have to  start  by  saying something. So,  perhaps  recalling  advice  from  a childhood swimming coach, we close our eyes, take a deep breath, and jump in:
If you contest Dad's will, it's going to tear the family apart.
I was very upset by what you said in front of our supervisor.
Your son Nathan can be difficult in class - disruptive and argumentative. You've said in the past that things at home are fine, but something must be troubling him.
Before we know it, we're in over our heads. The other person becomes hurt or angry, we feel defensive, our preparation goes out the window, and we wonder why we thought having this conversation was a good idea in the first place.

## We Begin Inside Our Own Story (p170)

When  we  jump  into  conversations  we  typically  begin  inside  our story. We describe the problem from our own perspective and, in doing so, trigger just the kinds of reactions we hope to avoid. We begin from precisely the place the other person thinks is causing the problem. If they agreed with our story, we probably wouldn't be having this conversation in the first place. Our story sends up flares, warning them to defend themselves or to counterattack.

## We Trigger Their Identity Conversation from the Start (p170)

Our story invariably (though often unintentionally) communicates a judgment about them-the kind of person they are-and the fact that inside our version of the events, they are the problem. Something as simple as an opening sentence can give us away. Let's take a look at the lines offered above:
We could imagine even worse ways to begin, but it's not hard to see why these provoke defensiveness. We trigger the other person's Identity  Conversation from the outset, and there's no room in our agenda for their story. It's natural that they would reject our version and want to get their own on the table: 'I'm not trying to tear the family apart, I'm just sticking up for what Dad wanted.' Or, 'Nathan is not a problem child. People who know how to handle children see that he's a very sweet boy.'
By leaving their story out, we implicitly set up a trade-off between their  version  of  events  and  our  version,  between  our  feelings  and theirs.
The question is what to do instead. Below, we lay out two powerful guidelines for starting the conversation off in the right direction: (1) begin the conversation from the 'Third Story,' and (2) offer an invitation to explore the issues jointly.

## Step One: Begin from the Third Story (p171)

In addition to your story and the other person's story, every difficult conversation includes an invisible Third Story. The Third Story is
the one a keen observer would tell, someone with no stake in your particular problem. For example, in the battle between bicycles and cars for the streets of the city, the Third Story would be the one told by city planners, who can understand each side's concerns and see why each group is frustrated with the other. When tensions arise in a marriage,  the  Third  Story  might  be  the  one  offered  by  a  marriage counselor. In a dispute between friends, the Third Story may be the perspective  of  a  mutual  friend  who  sees  each  side  as  having  valid concerns that need to be addressed.

## Think Like a Mediator (p172)

The  urban  planner,  marriage  counselor,  and  mutual  friend  each have the vantage point of a neutral observer, or mediator. Mediators are third parties who help people solve their problems. Unlike judges or arbitrators, though, mediators have no power to impose a solution; they are there to help the two sides communicate more effectively, and to explore possible ways of moving forward.
One of  the  most  helpful  tools  a  mediator  has  is  the  ability  to identify this invisible Third Story. This means describing the problem between the parties in a way that rings true for both sides simultaneously. It's easy to describe the problem so that only one of the disputants would agree with it - in fact, that's what each of us does when we begin inside our own story. The trick is being able to get two people with different stories to sign on to the same description of what is going on.
Mediators don't possess some magical intuition that allows them to do this. They are relying on a formula (and a lot of practice), and this formula can be learned by anyone. You don't have to be an impartial third party to begin from the Third Story. You can begin your own conversations this way.

## Not Right or Wrong, Not Better or Worse - Just Different (p173)

The key is learning to describe the gap - or difference - between your story and the other person's story. Whatever else you may think and feel,  you  can  at  least  agree  that  you  and  the  other  person  see things differently. Consider an example.
Jason's Story. Jason's roommate, Jill, leaves dishes in the sink for days on end. This drives Jason crazy, and means that he ends up doing much of the cleaning up, since he can't stand to let them sit. In the past, Jason has raised the issue with Jill by saying, 'Do I have to do everything around here? You can't let dishes sit this long - it's a health risk.'
Obviously, Jason is speaking from inside his story. Jill is not going to be thrilled with this start to a conversation, and will likely respond by defending herself or attacking Jason. This would be true even if Jason began with more tact, offering something like, 'Jill we need to talk about your problem with getting the dishes done.' Tact or not, it's still his story.
Jill's Story. If Jill were to raise the problem, she would begin differently: 'Jason, we need to talk about the fact that you are so annoyingly  anal  about  the  dishes.  Last  night  you  practically  cleared  the table before I was finished eating. You need to relax.' This, of course, suits Jill but not Jason.
The Third Story. The Third Story would remove the judgment from the description, and instead describe the problem as a difference between Jason and Jill. It might go like this: 'Jason and Jill have different  preferences  around  when the dishes are done, and different standards  for  what  constitutes  appropriate  or  obsessive  cleanliness. Each is unhappy with the other's approach.' That's how a mediator or observant friend might describe the problem. Both Jason and Jill can sign on to this difference.
Clearly, there is a difference, and in the Third Story there is no
judgment about who is right or even whose view is more common. The Third Story simply captures the difference. That's what allows both sides to buy into the same description of the problem: each feels that their story is acknowledged as a legitimate part of the discussion.
Once you find it, you can begin with the Third Story yourself. So Jason might say, 'Jill, you and I seem to have different preferences about when the dishes get done or beliefs about when they should be done. I wonder if that's something we could talk about?' Jason can offer that without sacrificing his own views (soon enough, he'll ask about Jill's story, and describe his own), and Jill can sign on without defensiveness.
Importantly, you don't have to know what the other person's story entails to include it in initiating the conversation this way. All you have to do is acknowledge that it's there: that there are probably lots of things you don't understand about their perspective, and that one of the reasons you want to talk is that you want to learn more about their view. You can begin from the Third Story by saying, 'My sense is that you and I see this situation differently. I'd like to share how I'm seeing it, and learn more about how you're seeing it.'

## Opening Lines (p174)

From Inside Your Story: If you contest Dad's will, it's going to tear our family apart.
From the Third Story: I wanted to talk about Dad's will. You and I obviously have different understandings of what Dad intended, and of  what's  fair  to  each  of  us.  I  wanted  to  understand  why  you  see things the way you do, and to share with you my perspective and feelings. In addition, I have strong feelings and fears about what a court fight would mean for the family; I suspect you do too.
From Inside Your Story: I was very upset by what you said in front of our supervisor.
From the Third Story: I wanted to talk to you about what happened in the meeting this morning. I was upset by something you said. I wanted to explain what was bothering me, and also hear your perspective on the situation.
From Inside Your Story: Your son Nathan can be difficult in class disruptive and argumentative. You've said in the past that things at home are fine, but something must be troubling him.
From  the  Third  Story: I  wanted  to  share  with  you  my  concerns about Nathan's behavior in class, and hear more about your sense of what might be contributing to it. I know from our past conversation that you and I have different thinking on this. My sense is that if a child  is  having  trouble  at  school,  something  is  usually  bothering him at home, and I know you've felt strongly that that's not true in this  case.  Maybe  together  we  can  figure  out  what's  motivating Nathan and how to handle it.
Most conversations can be initiated from the Third Story to include  both  perspectives  and  invite  joint  exploration.  Consider  the openings we looked at earlier, and how they might sound if begun from the Third Story:
Stepping out of your story doesn't mean giving up your point of view. Your purpose in opening the conversation is to invite the other person  into  a  joint  exploration.  In  the  course  of  that  exploration you'll spend time in each side's perspective, and then come back to adjust your own views based on what you've learned and what you've shared.
After talking with your brother about how you each think your father's  estate  should  be  divided,  where those views come from, and how you feel about the current conflict, it may be that your view of what's fair changes. Your brother's view may also shift. And the two of you may find a way to settle the issue that feels fair to both of you.
Or the two of you may still disagree. You think that the estate should be evenly divided among the three kids. Your brother says Dad meant it to be divided equally among the seven grandchildren - so that his branch of the family with its three grandsons gets more than you and your only daughter. Even if you disagree on the substance of the dispute, you've had the chance to express how upsetting, sad, and worrisome the conflict is for you, and to gain a deeper understanding of  why  your  brother  sees  it  as  he  does.  You  may  be  able  to  find  a process  for  working  through  the  differences  while  protecting  your
family  relationships  from  being  ravaged  by  a  nasty  fight.  Keeping communication open and understanding the feelings and perspectives involved sends an important message that even when we disagree, we care about each other. That we are going to stay in communication with each other, even while we take the questions we can't agree on to an arbitrator or probate court to be decided. If nothing else, you will be better able to separate the substantive disagreements from the importance of the relationships.

## If They Start the Conversation, You Can Still Step to the Third Story (p176)

Of course, you won't always have the chance to reflect on how you want  to  begin  the  conversation.  Sometimes  difficult  conversations will simply descend upon you - presenting themselves in your office or on your doorstep - whether you are ready for them or not.
You can follow the Third Story guidelines even when you are not the initiator of the conversation. Here's what you do. You take whatever  the  other  person  says  and  use  it  as  their  half  of  a  description from the Third Story. Since the Third Story includes their story, starting the conversation with their view doesn't mean you're off track.
If Jill comes to Jason and says, 'We need to talk about how you ruin  all  our  meals  by  being  so  obsessive  about  the  dishes,'  Jason might find himself wanting to respond from inside his story: 'What? You're the one with the problem. You're the biggest slob I know!' But if  he  does,  he'll  send  the  conversation  headlong  toward  that  brick wall.
Instead,  Jason  can  treat  Jill's  opening  as  her  part  of  the  Third Story. He might say, 'It sounds like you're pretty unhappy with how I handle the dishes. I have trouble with how you deal with the dishes too, so I think we each have different preferences and assumptions around that. It seems like that would be a good thing for us to talk about. . . .'
Jason has not only acknowledged Jill's story as an important part of the conversation, but also included his own as part of the process
of understanding the problem. And in doing so Jason has succeeded in  shifting  the  purpose  of  the  conversation  from  arguing  toward understanding.

## Step Two: Extend an Invitation (p177)

The second step in getting off to a good start is to offer a simple invitation: I've described the problem in a way we can each accept. Now I want to propose mutual understanding and problem-solving as purposes, check to see if this makes sense to you, and invite you to join me in a conversation.

## Describe Your Purposes (p177)

If  the  other  person is going to accept your invitation, they need to know what it is they are agreeing to do. Letting them know up front that  your  goal  for  the  discussion  is  to  understand  their  perspective better,  share  your  own,  and  talk  about  how  to  go  forward  together makes the conversation significantly less mysterious and threatening. Knowing that their perspective has a place in the conversation, and that this isn't a campaign to change them, makes it more likely that they will accept your invitation.

## Invite, Don't Impose (p177)

An invitation,  of  course,  can  be  turned  down.  Neither  person  can force  the  other  to  engage  in  a  conversation.  If  you  conceptualize your task as 'setting the description of the problem and purposes for the conversation,' even a well-crafted opening may meet with some resistance, because this is now your version of the Third Story. So your offer should be open to modification by the other person.
Think of the goal rather  as  'offering  and  discussing  a  possible
description and purpose' for your conversation. In other words, the task of describing the problem and of setting purposes is itself a joint task.

## Make Them Your Partner in Figuring It Out (p178)

Your invitation is more likely to be accepted if you offer the other person an appealing role in managing the problem. You need to sidestep the temptation to cast them as 'the problem,' or in an unappealing light, since this will trigger their Identity Conversation and stop the  conversation  cold.  So  if,  in  a  stalled  contract  negotiation,  you were to say, 'I can see that we have different ideas about what salary makes sense here,' so far so good. But if you then add, 'and since you're new at this, I can tell you how it's usually done,' you cast them as the neophyte, and sink the ship.
If accepting your invitation requires the other person to acknowledge that they are naive, callous, manipulative, or in any other way unsavory or inadequate, they are substantially less likely to accept. If, on the other hand, you say, 'Can you help me understand . . . ?' you offer the role of advisor. 'Let's work on how we might . . . .' invites a partnership. 'I wonder whether it's possible to . . . .' throws out a challenge, one which offers the other person the potential role of hero.
The role you offer has to be genuine. But don't be fooled into thinking that your original depiction - the story that casts the other person as the villain, for example - is any more genuine than other roles  you  can  find  for  them.  It  may  be  that  recasting  them  into  a more attractive role requires recognizing that if you are going to gain a  more  complete  picture  of  what's  going  on - and  make  any  real progress - you need their help.
Sometimes the most genuine thing you can do is share your internal struggle to cast them in a more positive role. You can say something like, 'The story I'm telling in my head about what is going on is that you are being inconsiderate. At some level I know that's unfair to you, and I need you to help me put things in better perspective. I
need  you  to  help  me  understand  where  you  are  coming  from  on this.' It's honest and, at the same time, offers them the role of 'someone who can help me get my perspective back.'

## Be Persistent (p179)

Being persistent is not inconsistent with the advice to invite rather than impose. It may take a little work to help them understand what it is you are proposing.
Ruth wants to have a conversation with her ex-husband about the time he spends with their daughter, Alexis. In the past, their conversations have resulted in fights. This time, Ruth begins from the Third Story and offers some useful purposes. Even so, it takes some negotiating to get her ex-husband to understand:
Ruth: Brian, it seems to me that we're having a hard time being clear with each other about how likely it is that you'll make it for your time with Lexi.
Brian: I know, I know. I'm sorry, okay? We had a crisis on the shop floor and I was tied up in meetings trying to address it.
Ruth: I  understand that things sometimes come up. I guess I was thinking about the bigger picture, since there have been several  times  in  the  last  few  months  when  I  thought  we'd confirmed plans for you to spend the day with Lexi, and later learned that you understood our plans to be more tentative. You thought the plan was that you'd come by if you could get away.
Brian: That was what I said. If I could get away, I'd visit.
Ruth: See, and I thought we'd agreed to a definite plan - that you'll be here no matter what. So you and I are misunderstanding each other. I'd like to sort this out, because it's awfully hard on Alexis when you and I get our signals crossed. Can we spend some time trying to figure this thing out?
Brian: Sure. I don't want to upset Lexi. . . .
Notice  that  Brian  didn't  accept  or  perhaps  even  understand Ruth's description of the problem or purposes at the beginning. He expected to be yelled at for not showing up, and reacted accordingly. But Ruth does a nice job of being both persistent and open to Brian's response.

## Some Specific Kinds of Conversations (p180)

In addition to the general advice to open the conversation from the Third  Story,  we  can  offer  more  specific  advice  on  getting  started, depending  on  the  nature  of  the  difficult  conversation  you  are anticipating.

## Delivering Bad News (p180)

As we said in Chapter 2, even delivering bad news should be a conversation, and it's usually best to put the bad news up front. Don't try to trick the other person into saying it first, by asking, for example, 'So, what do you think of the relationship?' when what you mean is 'I want to break up.' And don't talk for two hours about some of the 'issues' you've been having with the relationship, if you know that in the end what you want to do is break up.
If  you  are  letting  your  parents  know  that  you  and  your  family won't be coming for Christmas, you might say, 'We've talked a lot about how important it is to you for us to come home for the holidays, and also how difficult it is financially and emotionally for us to do that. I'm calling because Juan and I have talked a lot about it, and have decided that we are going to spend this Christmas here with the kids. It was a really difficult decision, and I feel bad about disappointing you. I wanted to let you know as early as I could, and to talk a little bit, if you'd like, about your reactions and our thinking.'
This doesn't mean that if you have both good news and bad news that you necessarily have to start with the bad. Rather, be clear that
you have both. Indeed, you might discuss where to start with the recipient. Or there may be a logical order to follow that you can share.

## Making Requests (p181)

Some difficult conversations center on our desire to get something. A common example is asking for a raise. How to begin?
'I Wonder If It Would Make Sense . . . ?' The simple advice about making requests is this: Don't make it a demand. Instead, invite an exploration of whether a raise is fair, whether it makes sense. That's not being unassertive, that's being in better touch with reality. Your boss has information about you and your colleagues that you don't have. It may sound like nitpicking, but in fact you can't know that  you  deserve  a  raise  until  you've  explored  the  issue  with  your boss.
At some level you know this, which is one of the big reasons asking for a raise causes anxiety. Try replacing 'I think I deserve a raise' with 'I'd like to explore whether a raise for me might make sense. From the information I have, I think I deserve one. [Here's my reasoning.] I wonder how you see it?' This seemingly small change in how you begin should not only reduce stress but also get the conversation off on an even keel. In the end, you may learn that you don't deserve a raise, or that you deserve an even bigger one than you initially thought you did.

## Revisiting Conversations Gone Wrong (p181)

Sometimes you know, perhaps from past experience, that the other person is likely to react negatively the minute you raise an especially sensitive topic. Your son doesn't want to talk about his grades, your wife doesn't want to talk about the finances, and the minute you raise the question of racism in the department your colleagues roll their
eyes. How can you open a more constructive conversation when conversations haven't gone well in the past and the simple fact of raising the old issue casts you as the nag?
Talk About How to Talk About It. The easiest approach is first to talk about how to talk. Treat 'the way things usually go when we try  to  have  this  conversation' as the problem, and describe it from the Third Story: 'I know that in the past when I've raised the question  of  who's  getting  promoted  and  what  role  race  plays  in  that process, people have sometimes felt accused or exasperated. I don't mean to accuse anyone, or to make people feel uncomfortable. At the  same  time,  it  feels  important  to  me  to  discuss.  I'm  wondering whether we could talk about how we each react to that conversation, and whether there's a better way we could address these issues?'
Or imagine that you have a friend who you think is so overbooked with commitments that it's affecting her health. Only she doesn't see it  that  way, and whenever you try to bring it up, she gets defensive. Raising it by talking about how you talk might sound like this: 'I definitely  get  the  sense  that  you  don't  like  discussing  your  schedule,  at least not the way I bring it up. The problem for me is that I feel worried and I would like to share why in a way that's helpful. I don't seem to know how to do that, and I was wondering if you had any advice.'
Your friend may still tell you to butt out. But it's also possible that she'll engage: 'You know what, I more or less agree with you. But so many people are hitting me with this from so many angles right now that what I really need is someone who'll just be supportive without trying to give me advice. Just listen while I think things through and decide what to cut out. You know what I mean?'

## A Map for Going Forward: Third Story, Their Story, Your Story (p182)

Beginning from the Third Story  gets  you  safely  to  the  base  of  the mountain. But then there's the mountain itself to climb. Once a description of the problem is on the table, and your purposes are clear,
then you will need to spend time exploring the Three Conversations from  each  of  your  perspectives.  The  other  person  will  share  their views  and  feelings,  and  you'll  step  back  into  your  story  and  share yours.

## What to Talk About: The Three Conversations (p183)

As you share your stories, each of the Three Conversations offers a useful path to explore. You can talk about the past experiences that have led each of you to see the  current  situation  the  way you do: 'I think the reason I reacted so strongly is that the last time we didn't receive payment from  a  vendor,  the  situation only went from bad to worse.'
You can ask about the other person's  intentions,  and  share the impact of their behavior on you: 'I don't know whether you realize  this  or  not,  but  when you  didn't  call,  I  was  frantic with worry.' You can empathize with how they might be feeling: 'If I were you, I'd be pretty frustrated  at  this  point.'  Or  share what's going on with your Identity  Conversation:  'I  think  the reason I find this so hard is that being  fair  is  so  important  to me. It's upsetting to think that the way  I  handled  this situation  might  not  have  been fair  to  you.'  Ultimately,  what

## What to Talk About (p183)


## Explore where each story comes from (p183)

'My reactions here probably have a lot to do with my experiences in a previous job. . . .'
Share the impact on you 'I don't know whether you intended this, but I felt extremely uncomfortable when . . . .'

## Take responsibility for your contribution (p183)

'There are a number of things I've done that have made this situation harder. . . .'

## Describe feelings (p183)

'I'm anxious about bringing this up, but at the same time, it's important to me that we talk about it. . . .'
Reflect on the identity issues 'I think the reason this subject hooks me is that I don't like thinking of myself as someone who . . . .'
you choose to share will depend upon the context and the relationship and what feels appropriate and helpful.

## How to Talk About It: Listening, Expression, and Problem-Solving (p184)

The Three Conversations provide a useful map for what to talk about; the next few chapters delve more deeply into how to talk about it.
To be able to see the other person's story from the inside you'll need  some  specific  skills  in  inquiring,  listening,  and  acknowledgment. To share your own story with clarity and power, you need to feel entitled and be precise in speaking only for yourself. Chapters 9 and  10  explore  these  challenges  and  offer  guidelines  for  effectiveness.  Of  course,  it  will  never  be  as  tidy  as  moving  from  the Third Story, to Their Story, to Your Story . A real conversation is an interactive  process - one  where  you  are  constantly  going  to  be  listening, sharing your view, asking questions, and negotiating to get the conversation back on track when it starts to go off the rails. Chapter 11 provides  guidance  on  how  to  manage  this  interactive  process  and how to move toward problem-solving. Finally, Chapter 12 returns to our original story of Jack and Michael and offers an extended example illustrating how it all works in practice.

## 9 (p185)


## Learning: Listen from the Inside Out (p185)

Andrew is visiting his Uncle Doug. While Doug is on the phone, Andrew tugs on his uncle's pant leg, saying, 'Uncle Doug, I want to go outside.'
'Not now, Andrew, I'm on the phone,' says Doug.
Andrew persists: 'But Uncle Doug, I want to go outside!'
'Not now Andrew!' comes Doug's response.
After several more rounds, Doug tries a different approach: 'Hey, Andrew. You really want to go outside, don't you?'
'Yes,'  says  Andrew.  Then  without  further  comment,  Andrew walks  off  and  begins  playing  by  himself.  Andrew,  it  turns  out,  just wanted to know that his uncle understood him. He wanted to know he'd been heard.
Andrew's story demonstrates something that is true for all of us: we have a deep desire to feel heard, and to know that others care enough to listen.
Some people think they are already good listeners. Others know they are not, but don't much care. If you're in either group you might be tempted to skip this chapter. Don't. Listening well is one of the most powerful skills you can bring to a difficult conversation. It helps you  understand  the  other  person.  And,  importantly,  it  helps  them understand you.

## Listening Transforms the Conversation (p186)

A year ago, Greta's mother learned she had diabetes and was ordered to follow a strict regimen of medication, diet, and exercise. Greta is concerned that her mother is not following the regimen, but Greta has had little success encouraging her mother to do so. A typical conversation between them goes like this:
Greta: Mom, you need to stay on the exercise plan. I worry that you don't understand how important it is.
Mom: Greta,  please  stop  hounding  me  about  this.  You  don't understand. I'm doing the best I can.
Greta: Mom, I do understand. I know that exercising can be difficult, but I want you to stay well. I want you to be around for your grandchildren.
Mom: Greta, I really don't like these conversations. It's all very hard for me, the diet, the exercise.
Greta: I know it's hard. Exercising is no fun, but the thing is, after a week or two, it gets easier, and you start to look forward to it. We can find you some sort of activity that you'll really enjoy.
Mom: [choked up] You don't realize . . . . It's very stressful. I'm just  not  going  to  talk  about  it  anymore.  That's  all  there  is to it!
Not  surprisingly,  these  conversations  leave  Greta  feeling  frustrated, powerless, and deeply sad. Greta wonders how she might be more assertive, how she can persuade her mother to change.
But assertiveness isn't Greta's problem. What's missing from her stance is curiosity. In a follow-up conversation, Greta shifts her goal from persuasion to learning. To do this she limits herself to listening, asking questions, and acknowledging her mother's feelings:
Greta: I  know you don't like talking about your diabetes and exercising.
Mom: I really don't. It's very upsetting to me.
Greta: When you say it's upsetting, what do you mean? In what ways?
Mom: Greta, the whole thing! Do you think it's fun for me?
Greta: No,  Mom,  I  know  it's  really  hard.  I  just  don't  know much about what you think about it, what it means to you, what you feel about it.
Mom: I'll tell you, if your father were alive, it would be different. He was so sweet when I would get sick. Having to follow all these  complicated  rules,  that's  what  he  would  have  been good at. He would have taken care of the whole thing. Being sick, it just makes me miss him so much.
Greta: It  sounds  like  you've  been  feeling  really  lonely  without Dad.
Mom: I have friends, and you've been wonderful, but it's not the same as having your father here to help. I suppose I really do feel lonely, but I hate to talk about that. I don't want to be a burden on you kids.
Greta: You feel like if you tell us you're lonely, it will be a burden? We'll worry?
Mom: I  just  don't  want  you  to  have  to  go  through  what  my mother went through. You know her mother died of diabetes.
Mom: It's scary to be told you have what your grandmother died of. It's hard for me to accept. I know the medications are better now, which is why I should be following all those rules, but if I follow all those rules, it just makes me feel like some sick old lady.
Greta: So  keeping  to  the  regimen  would  feel  like  accepting something that you don't really totally accept yet?
Mom: It's irrational. I'm not saying it's not. [choked up] It's just very frightening and overwhelming.
Mom: I'll tell you something else. I don't even understand what I'm  supposed  to  be  doing.  The  eating,  the  exercise.  If  you do one, it affects the other, and you have to keep track. It's
complicated, and the doctor isn't terribly helpful in explaining it. I don't know where to begin. Your father would know.
Greta: Maybe that's something I could help you with.
Mom: Greta, I don't want to be a burden.
Greta: I  want to help. It would actually make me feel better. Not so powerless.
If you could, that would take a big load off my mind. . . .
Greta was astonished and delighted at how much better her conversations became after she began truly listening to her mother. She came to see the issues from her mother's point of view, how much deeper they ran than she suspected, and how she might be able to help her mother in ways that her mother wanted to be helped. This is perhaps  the  most  obvious  benefit  of  listening:  learning  about  the other person. But there is a second, more surprising benefit as well.

## Listening to Them Helps Them Listen to You (p188)

Ironically,  when  Greta  shifted  away  from  trying  to  persuade  her mother to exercise and toward simply listening and acknowledging, she ended up achieving the goal that had eluded her up to that point. This is  not  an  accident.  One  of  the  most  common  complaints  we hear from people engaged in difficult conversations is that the other person won't listen. And when we hear that, our standard advice is ' You need to spend more time listening to them .'
When the other person is not listening, you may imagine it is because they're stubborn or don't understand what you're trying to say. (If they did, they'd understand why they should listen to it.) So you may try to break through that by repeating, trying new ways to explain yourself, talking more loudly, and so forth.
On the face of it, these would seem to be good strategies. But they're not. Why? Because in the great majority of cases, the reason the other person is not listening to you is not because they are stubborn, but because they don't feel heard. In other words, they aren't listening to you for the same reason you aren't listening to them: they
think you are slow or stubborn. So they repeat themselves, find new ways to say things, talk more loudly, and so forth.
If the block to their listening is that they don't feel heard, then the  way  to  remove  that  block  is  by  helping  them  feel  heard - by bending over backwards to listen to what they have to say, and perhaps  most  important,  by  demonstrating  that  you  understand  what they are saying and how they are feeling.
If you don't quite believe this, try it. Find the most stubborn person you know, the person who never seems to take in anything you say, the person who repeats himself or herself in every conversation you  ever  have - and  listen  to  them.  Especially,  listen  for  feelings, like frustration or pride or fear, and acknowledge those feelings. See whether that person doesn't become a better listener after all.

## The Stance of Curiosity: How to Listen from the Inside Out (p189)

What, specifically, does Greta do differently in the second conversation?  She  asks  questions.  She  paraphrases  what  her  mother  says  to make sure she understands it, and to make sure her mother understands that Greta understands. Greta is also listening for the feelings that might be behind what her mother is saying, and acknowledges them when she hears them.
Each  of  these  is  enormously  important  to  good  listening.  But none is enough. The single most important thing Greta has done is to shift her internal stance from 'I understand' to 'Help me understand.' Everything else follows from that.

## Forget the Words, Focus on Authenticity (p189)

Scores  of  workshops  and  books  on  'active  listening'  teach  you what you should do to be a good listener. Their advice is relatively similar - ask questions, paraphrase back what the other person has said,  acknowledge  their  view,  sit  attentively  and  look  them  in  the
eye -all good advice. You emerge from these courses eager to try out your new skills, only to become discouraged when your friends or colleagues complain that you sound phony or mechanical. 'Don't use that active listening stuff on me,' they say.
The problem is this: you are taught what to say and how to sit, but the heart of good listening is authenticity. People 'read' not only your words and posture, but what's going on inside of you. If your 'stance' isn't genuine, the words won't matter. What will be communicated  almost  invariably  is  whether  you  are  genuinely  curious, whether you genuinely care about the other person. If your intentions  are  false,  no  amount  of  careful  wording  or  good  posture will help. If your intentions are good, even clumsy language won't hinder you.
Listening is only powerful and effective if it is authentic. Authenticity means that you are listening because you are curious and because  you  care,  not  just  because  you  are  supposed  to.  The  issue, then, is this: Are you curious? Do you care?

## The Commentator in Your Head: Become More Aware of Your Internal Voice (p190)

You can tell what's going on inside of you by listening to yourself. Finding  and  paying  attention  to  your  own  internal  voice - what you're thinking but not saying - is the crucial first step in overcoming the biggest barrier to inauthentic listening. Left unattended, that voice blocks good listening; to the extent you're listening to your own internal voice, you're at best only half listening to the other person.
Take a moment to locate the commentator in your head. It's saying something like 'Hmm, this internal voice is an interesting concept'  or  'What  are  they  talking  about?  I  don't  have  an  internal voice' ( that's the voice).

## Don't Turn It Off, Turn It Up (p191)

Perhaps surprisingly, our advice is not to turn off your internal voice, or even to turn it down. You can't. Instead, we urge you to do the opposite - turn up your internal voice, at least for the time being, and get to know the kinds of things it says. In other words, listen to it. Only when you're fully aware of your own thoughts can you begin to manage them and focus on the other person.
There are endless thoughts and feelings you might have while you're listening, but by now you know the patterns: your voice will be chattering away in each of the Three Conversations. In the 'What Happened?' Conversation, you'll find yourself thinking things like 'I'm right,' 'I did not intend to hurt you,' and 'This isn't my fault.' You'll also notice plenty of feelings ('I can't believe she thinks that about  me!  I'm  so  furious!')  and  identity  issues  ('Was  I  really  that thoughtless? I couldn't have been'). Or not uncommonly, you may simply be daydreaming ('I wonder if there's enough meatloaf for the in-laws') or beginning to prepare your response ('When it's my turn to talk, there are four points I'm going to make').
No wonder the person you're listening to doesn't feel they have your full attention.

## Managing Your Internal Voice (p191)

How then can you give the other person your full attention and listen with curiosity when your internal commentator is chattering away? You can try two things. First, see if you can negotiate your way to curiosity. See if you can get your internal voice into a learning mode. If this doesn't work, and sometimes it won't, you may first have to express your internal voice before trying to listen to the other person.
Negotiate Your Way to Curiosity. It's a mistake to think your internal voice can't change. If you find your curiosity failing, you can work to rev it up. Remind yourself that the task of understanding the
other person's world is always harder than it seems. Remind yourself that if you think you already understand how someone else feels or what they are trying to say, it is a delusion. Remember a time when you were sure you were right and then discovered one little fact that changed everything. There is always more to learn. Remind yourself of the depth, complexities, contradictions, and nuances that make up the stories of each of our lives.
Audrey's six-year-old daughter, Jocie, woke her up in the middle of the night. Jocie was scared because of a movie they'd seen about a puppy's mother who ran away and never came back. Audrey assumed Jocie was worried about being abandoned herself, and she explained to Jocie that 'I would never run away and leave you by yourself.'
But it turned out that that wasn't what Jocie was worried about at all. She was anxious about her new turtle. The movie had caused her to  wonder  whether  her  turtle  might  be  someone's  mother,  and whether there was a baby turtle somewhere that needed its mother back. In fact, Jocie's turtle was itself a baby, but Jocie didn't know that and was consumed with fear and guilt. Audrey had fallen into the trap of listening to her internal voice rather than to her daughter. Her internal voice was saying, 'I know what this is all about,' and that was the end of her curiosity.
Another way to rekindle your curiosity is to keep focused on your purpose in the conversation. If your purpose is to persuade or win or get the other person to do something, your internal voice will be saying things in line with those purposes, such as, 'Why don't you just do this - it's obviously the best answer.' If, instead, you hold as one of  your  primary  purposes  understanding  the  other  person,  it  motivates  your  internal  voice  to  ask  questions,  such  as  'What  else  do  I need to know for that to make more sense?' or 'I wonder how I can understand the world in such a way that that would make sense?'
Don't Listen:  Talk. Sometimes  you'll  find  that  your  internal voice is just too strong to take on. You try to negotiate your way to curiosity, but you just can't get there. If you're sitting on feelings of pain or outrage or betrayal, or, conversely, if you're overcome with joy or love, then listening may be a hopeless task.
Listening certainly feels out of reach for Dalila as she learns that Heather, her roommate of six months, is bisexual. As Heather talks, Dalila sits feeling confused, embarrassed, even a little angry. Rather than pretending to listen, Dalila needs to do the opposite. To remain authentic in the conversation she needs first to be honest about what she is thinking and feeling: 'I'm glad you trust me enough to tell me this, and I really want to listen. At the same time, this is very upsetting for me. I'm feeling awkward, like I'm not sure how to act around you right now, and I'm just overwhelmed about what this means.'
Dalila and Heather have a tough conversation ahead. Not only will each of them have strong feelings to sort through and share, but they have very different views about sexuality. As they talk about their friendship and how to handle their ongoing rooming situation, it will be critically important that each has the ability to listen to the other. At times, to be able to listen they'll need first to speak.
When you find  yourself  in  this  situation,  let  the  other  person know that you want to listen and that you care about what they have to say, but that you can't listen right now. Often it's enough to give a headline of what you're thinking: 'I'm surprised to hear you say that. I think I disagree, but say more about how you see it,' or 'I have to admit that as much as I want to hear what you have to say, I'm feeling a little defensive right now.' With that on the table, you can get back to listening, knowing that you've signaled your difference and will get back to your view in time.
In some cases, you may decide that you can neither listen nor talk. This may be because you're too upset or confused, or simply because  you  need  to  be  doing  something  else.  Rather  than  give  the other person half your attention, it's better to say, 'This is important to me, I want to find a time to talk about it, and right now I'm not able to.'
Managing your internal voice is not easy, especially at first. But it is at the heart of good listening.

## Three Skills: Inquiry, Paraphrasing, and Acknowledgment (p194)

While  your  internal  stance  is  the  key  to  good  listening,  there  are some specific techniques we can pass along, some how-tos that people find helpful. In addition to the stance of curiosity, there are three primary skills that good listeners employ: inquiry, paraphrasing, and acknowledgment. Below are some dos and don'ts relating to each.

## Inquire to Learn (p194)

The heading says it all: inquire to learn. And only to learn. You can tell whether a question will help the conversation or hurt it by thinking about why you asked it. The only good answer is 'To learn.'

## Don't Make Statements Disguised as Questions (p194)

Anyone who has ever been a kid in a car has uttered the cranky words 'Are we there yet?' You know you're not there yet, and your parents know you know, and so they respond in a tone as cranky as yours. What you really meant was 'I'm feeling restless' or 'I wish we were there' or 'This is a long trip for me.' Any of these would likely elicit a more productive response from Mom and Dad.
This  illustrates  an  important  rule  about  inquiry:  If  you  don't have a  question,  don't  ask  a  question.  Never  dress  up  an  assertion as a question. Doing so creates confusion and resentment, because such questions are inevitably heard as sarcastic and sometimes meanspirited. Consider some examples of assertions disguised as questions:
'Are you going to leave the refrigerator door open like that?' (Instead of 'Please close the refrigerator door' or 'I feel frustrated when you leave the refrigerator door open.')
'Is it impossible for you to focus on me just once?' (Instead of 'I feel ignored' or 'I'd like you to pay more attention to me.')
'Do you have to drive so fast?' (Instead of 'I'm feeling nervous' or 'It's hard for me to relax when I'm not in control.')
Notice that these examples of disguised assertions are either about feelings or about requests. This should not be surprising. Sharing our feelings and making requests are two things that many of us have difficulty doing directly. They can make us feel vulnerable. Turning what we have to say into an attack - a sarcastic question - can feel safer. But this safety is an illusion, and we lose more than we gain. Saying 'I'd like you to pay more attention to me' is more likely to produce a conversation (and a satisfying outcome) than 'Is it impossible for you to focus on me just once?'
Why? Because instead of hearing the underlying feeling or request,  the  other  person  focuses  on  the  sarcasm  and  the  attack.  Instead of hearing that you feel lonely, they hear that you think they are thoughtless. The real message doesn't get through, because they are distracted by the need to defend themselves. In fact, they are likely to respond  in  kind:  'Well,  sure,  I  can  focus  on  you  just once .'  And things deteriorate from there.

## Don't Use Questions to Cross-Examine (p195)

A second error that gets us into trouble is using questions to shoot holes in the other person's argument. For example:
'You seem to think this is my fault. But surely you'd agree that you made more mistakes than I did, wouldn't you?'
'If it's true that you did everything you could have done to make the sale, how do you explain the fact that Kate was able to make the sale so soon after you gave up?'
These questions are wrong-footed from the start. They emerge from a purpose of trying to persuade the other person that you are right and they are wrong, rather than trying to learn.
To use the ideas in these questions constructively, pull out the statements embedded in the questions and express them - but not as facts. Rather than asserting them as true, share them as open questions or perceptions, and ask for the other person's reaction. Rather than assuming that this is an argument they have ignored, assume that  they have thought about it  and  have  reason  to  tell  a  different story. You might say, for example, 'I understand that you feel you did everything you could to make the sale. To me, that seems inconsistent  with  the  fact  that  Kate  made  the  sale  right  after  you  gave  up. What's your thinking about that?'

## Ask Open-Ended Questions (p196)

Open-ended questions are questions that give the other person broad latitude in how to answer. They elicit more information than yes/no questions or offering menus, such as, 'Were you trying to do A or B?' Instead ask 'What were you trying to do?' This way you don't bias the  answer  or  distract  the  other  person's  thinking  by  the  need  to process your ideas. It lets them direct their response toward what is important to them .  Typical  open-ended questions are variations on 'Tell me more' and 'Help me understand better . . . .'

## Ask for More Concrete Information (p196)

To understand where the other person's conclusions came from and enrich  your  understanding  of  what  they  envision  going  forward,  it helps to ask them to be more explicit about their reasoning and their vision. 'What leads you to say that?' 'Can you give me an example?' 'What would that look like?' 'How would that work?' 'How would we test that hypothesis?'
Consider the situation Ross ran into with his boss. He received a flyer for a professional seminar he wanted to take. It would help him in his job as a product manager, so he figured the conversation with his boss about getting the time off and the course paid for would be a cinch.
He was wrong. The conversation went like this:
Boss: For me even to consider having the company pay for you to  go  to  that  seminar  I'd  need  more  evidence  that  you're dedicated to working here for the long term, and right now I just don't see it.
Ross: What?  I'm  totally  dedicated  to  the  company.  I've  told you that. That's the whole point of me wanting to take this seminar.
Boss: I don't see it that way. I get the sense you view this job as a stepping stone to something else.
Ross: Well, I don't know what else I can say, except that I love it here and plan to stay. And the seminar would be very helpful for the work I do. . . .
It's not hard to see why this is an unproductive exchange. There's virtually no information being transferred back and forth except 'Am so!' and 'Are not!' In essence, Ross's boss is saying, 'I don't think you're dedicated, but I'm not going to tell you why.' And unfortunately, Ross isn't asking.
After some coaching, Ross took up the issue again, but this time asked for more concrete information:
Ross: Say  more  about  how  you  judge  dedication,  and  what you've observed in me that suggests to you that I'm not as dedicated as you'd like me to be.
Boss: Well, obviously it's a lot of things. One piece of it is that you seem uninterested in the social events here. In my experience that has always been a pretty good indicator of dedication.  People  who  are  in  this  for  the  long  haul  know  the
importance of building and maintaining good relationships with their coworkers, and they make sure to get to as many social events as possible.
Ross: Huh. I'm totally surprised to hear you say that. I was assuming you measured dedication based on things like working late and doing a lot of assignments well.
Boss: That's very important too. But sometimes people do that to build a good record for when they decide to move on to the next job. In my experience the socializing aspect is the most tightly correlated to long-term interest. . . .
Finally, Ross and his boss were getting somewhere. By the end of the conversation, they had a much deeper understanding of why they each reached a different conclusion about Ross's commitment to the company, important information for Ross to know.

## Ask Questions About the Three Conversations (p198)

Each of the Three Conversations provides fertile ground for curiosity:
Can you say a little more about how you see things?
What information might you have that I don't?
Can you say a little more about why you think this is my fault?
Say more about why this is important to you.

## · What would it mean to you if that happened? (p199)

If the answers aren't entirely clear, keep digging. If necessary, say what's still unclear or inconsistent to you, and ask for clarification: 'Okay, so your view is that Kate made the sale because she could offer a reduced price on the service contract. I can see how that would make a difference. What I'm still not clear on, though, is why you couldn't offer that or get permission to offer that. Can you say more about that?'

## Make It Safe for Them Not to Answer (p199)

Sometimes even the most skillful question provokes defensiveness. You ask a question out of genuine caring toward the other person and a genuine desire to learn, and still they react by shutting down, defending, counterattacking, accusing you of bad intentions, or changing the subject.
One response is to say that you are trying to help and that there is no need to be defensive, and then continue to press for an answer. But this can be experienced as an attempt to control them, provoking further  resistance.  It's  better  to  make  your  question  an  invitation rather than a demand, and to make that clear. The difference is that an invitation can be declined without penalty. This offers a greater sense of safety and, especially if the other person declines to respond and your reaction makes that okay, it builds trust between you.
Whether you are  talking  with  your  boss  or  your  eight-year-old daughter, giving them the choice of whether to answer increases the chance  that  they  will  respond  and  respond  honestly.  Even  if  they don't answer now, they may later, after they think about it. Knowing that it's their choice underscores your caring intent and frees them to think about the question.

## Paraphrase for Clarity (p200)

The second skill a good listener brings to the conversation is paraphrasing. Paraphrasing is when you express to the other person, in your own words, your understanding of what they are saying. There are two significant benefits to paraphrasing.

## Check Your Understanding (p200)

First, paraphrasing gives you a chance to check your understanding. Difficult  conversations  are  made  harder  when  an  important  misunderstanding  exists,  and  such  misunderstandings  are  more  common  than  we  imagine.  Paraphrasing  gives  the  other  person  the chance  to  say,  'No,  that's  not  quite  what  I  meant.  What  I  really meant was . . . .'

## Show That You've Heard (p200)

Second, paraphrasing lets the other person know they've been heard. Usually the reason someone repeats himself or herself in a conversation is because they have no indication that you've actually taken in what they've said. If you notice that the other person is saying the same thing over and over again, take it as a signal that you need to paraphrase more. Once they feel heard, they are significantly more likely to listen to you. They will no longer be absorbed by their internal voice, and can focus on what you have to say.
Consider this conversation between Rachel and Ron, a married couple who frequently argue about how strictly to observe Shabbat (the Jewish Sabbath) and its traditional rules restricting travel:
Ron, tomorrow's Saturday. You know you can't drive
over to Chris's on Shabbat. Besides, we've got temple in the morning.
Ron: I know, but I told Chris I'd come. It's the only day he had available.
Rachel: Well, I think it's important that we go to services as a family. Why don't you go over there on Sunday?
Ron: Chris  can't  do  it  on  Sunday - he's  got  church  and stuff.
Rachel: Oh, so his religious practices are more important than ours?
Neither Rachel nor Ron feels heard in this conversation. If they are going to break this cycle, one of them has to decide to listen and to paraphrase. Let's assume that Ron decides to try:
Rachel: Ron, tomorrow's Saturday. You know you can't drive over to Chris's on Shabbat. Besides, we've got temple in the morning.
Ron: It sounds like my making plans is frustrating to you.
Rachel: You bet it's frustrating. I assumed we were going.
Ron: So part of the problem is that I made plans without consulting you?
Rachel: No, it's more that I hate being the one who always nags us to go to temple.
Ron: You feel like I make you the one responsible for our religious life.
Rachel: Yeah.  I  hate  feeling  like  the  Shabbat  police.  Plus,  I worry about the message it sends to the kids.
Ron: So you're afraid that if the kids see me breaking the Sabbath they won't take it seriously?
Rachel: That's part of it, but it's a lot of things. It's lonely when I go by myself. And I want you to go to temple because you want to go, not because I'm making you go.
Ron: I  can  see  how  that  would  be  lonely.  I  do  want  to  go  for
myself. I think that sometimes when I feel pressured to go, I resist because I don't like being told what to do. Also, sometimes I feel like I am following the spirit of the law by doing other things.
Ron: Well, like  helping  out  Chris.  He's  having  a  really  rough time in his marriage right now, and I wanted to try to spend some time with him. That makes me feel like I'm connecting with people in our community, which is part of what I get out of services. And I'd like the kids to see that caring for people is a big part of what this is all about. Maybe we could talk to them about this.
ron: But that might not meet your interest in going to services together, or not wanting to carry the weight of responsibility for it in our family. Can you say more about that? . . .
This  time  Rachel  and  Ron  are  starting  to  get  somewhere  in  a complex and emotionally charged issue. Ron's paraphrasing lets Rachel know that he is trying to understand her and that he cares about her feelings. He stops repeating himself, and she starts listening.

## Acknowledge Their Feelings (p202)

Notice  that  Ron  begins  paraphrasing  by  responding  not  to  what Rachel says, but to what she doesn't say: that she's frustrated. It is a fundamental rule: feelings crave acknowledgment. Like free radicals, feelings wander around the conversation looking for some acknowledgment  to  hook  onto.  They  won't  be  happy  until  they  get  it, and nothing else will do. Unless they get the acknowledgment they need, feelings will cause trouble in the conversation - like a kid desperate  for  attention,  positive  or  negative.  And  if  you  provide  that acknowledgment,  you  give  the  other  person  and  the  relationship something quite precious, something, perhaps, that they can only get from you.

## Answer the Invisible Questions (p203)

Why is acknowledgment so important? Because attached to each expression of feelings is a set of invisible questions: 'Are my feelings okay?' 'Do you understand them?' 'Do you care about them?' 'Do you care about me?' These questions are important, and we have trouble moving on in the conversation until we know the answers. Taking time to acknowledge the other person's feelings says loud and clear that the answer to each question is yes.

## How to Acknowledge (p203)

An acknowledgment is simply this: any indication that you are struggling to understand the emotional content of what the other person is saying. If the other person says to you, 'I'm confused by the fact that you lied to me,' you might say any of the following:
It sounds like you're overreacting a bit here.
Each of these is an understandable response. The first two respond to the substance of what is being said; the third judges the feeling.  But none simply acknowledges the feeling, or responds to the invisible questions. In contrast, any of the following would count as an acknowledgment:
It sounds like you're really upset about this.
If I were in your shoes I'd probably feel confused too.
There is no one perfect thing to say. In fact, you may not need to say anything. Sometimes you can acknowledge the other person with a simple nod, or even by the look in your eyes.

## Order Matters: Acknowledge Before Problem-Solving (p204)

Ultimately, of course, people want their problems addressed. Questions like 'What are we going to do about this?' 'Why did you do what you did?' 'How do you explain what happened?' are important. But order matters. Whether they say it or not, often people need some acknowledgment of feelings before they can move on to the 'What Happened?' Conversation.
Too often in difficult conversations and with the best of intentions, we skip right to problem-solving without acknowledging, and the loss is significant. 'You're working too hard,' says your husband. 'I never see you anymore.' You realize he's right, and say, 'Well, for the next month, my workload is a lot lighter. I'll make a real effort to be home every night by six o'clock.' Your husband doesn't seem satisfied, and you are left wondering what more you could have said.
But your husband's complaint is not a math problem. You may think you've 'solved' the problem, but his invisible questions haven't been addressed. Your husband wants his feelings acknowledged. 'It's been a tough time, these last few months, hasn't it?' or 'It sounds like you're feeling abandoned' would be more appropriate. Problemsolving is important, but it has to wait.

## Acknowledging Is Not Agreeing (p204)

The most common concern that arises around the issue of acknowledging is this: What if I don't agree with what the other person is saying?  This  is  an  important  concern.  It  is  useful  to  distinguish  here between  the  Feelings  Conversation  and  the  'What  Happened?' Conversation. While you may not agree with the substance of what
the other person is saying, you can still acknowledge the importance of their feelings.
For example, a supervisor has transferred one of her subordinates to a different department, and he comes into her office to complain. Notice how the supervisor acknowledges his feelings without agreeing with his conclusion:
Subordinate: I  have worked so hard for you and now you're shipping  me  out.  It's  just  not  fair.  I've  been  a  loyal  team player and now what's going to happen to me?
Supervisor: Sounds like  you  feel  really  hurt  and  betrayed.  I can see why that would be upsetting.
Subordinate: So you agree with me that this is unfair?
Supervisor: What I'm saying is that I can see how upset you're feeling,  and  it  hurts  me  to  see  you  so  upset.  I  also  think  I understand why you think this transfer is unfair, and why it could feel like I've betrayed your loyalty. Those factors made the  decision  to  transfer  you  very  difficult  for  me.  I  fought hard to  make this  work.  I  feel  badly  about  how  it's  turned out, but I do think it's the right decision, and overall I don't think it's unfair. We should talk about why.
It requires thought to make these kinds of distinctions, but it can help immensely. Too often we assume that we either have to agree or disagree  with  the  other  person.  In  fact,  we  can  acknowledge  the power  and  importance  of  the  feelings,  while  disagreeing  with  the substance of what is being said.

## A Final Thought: Empathy Is a Journey, Not a Destination (p205)

The deepest form of understanding another person is empathy. Empathy involves a shift from my observing how you seem on the outside,  to  my  imagining  what  it  feels  like  to  be  you  on  the  inside,
wrapped in your skin with your set of experiences and background, and looking out at the world through your eyes.
As an empathetic listener, you are on a journey with a direction but no destination. You will never 'arrive.' You will never be able to say, 'I truly understand you.' We are all too complex for that, and our skills to imagine ourselves into other people's lives too limited. But in a sense this is good news. Psychologists have found that we are each more interested in knowing that the other person is trying to emphathize with us -that they are willing to struggle to understand how we feel and see how we see - than we are in believing that they have actually accomplished that goal. Good listening, as we've said, is profoundly communicative. And struggling to understand communicates the most positive message of all.

## 10 Expression: (p207)


## Speak for Yourself with Clarity and Power (p207)

Beginning from the Third Story is a productive way to open a conversation. Listening to the other person's story with a real desire to learn what they are thinking and feeling is a crucial next step. But understanding them is rarely the end of the matter; the other person also needs to hear your story. You need to express yourself.

## Orators Need Not Apply (p207)

Expressing yourself well in a difficult conversation has nothing to do with how big your vocabulary is or how eloquent or quick-witted you are. Winston Churchill and Martin Luther King, Jr. were great orators, but in difficult conversations their powers of oration would be of no particular assistance.
In a difficult conversation your primary task is not to persuade, impress, trick, outwit, convert, or win over the other person. It is to express what you see and why you see it that way, how you feel, and maybe  who  you  are.  Self-knowledge  and  the  belief  that  what  you want to share is important will take you significantly further than eloquence and wit.
In the first  part  of  this  chapter  we  take  up  the  issue  of  entitlement. To communicate with clarity and power, you must first negotiate yourself into a place where you truly believe that what you want to express is worthy of expression - a belief that your views and feelings are as important as anyone else's. Period. In the second part of the chapter, we look at how to figure out what you want to express and how you might best express it. We'll examine several common but significant expression errors, ways to avoid them, and methods for expressing yourself well.

## You're Entitled (Yes, You) (p208)

John, a second-year law student, was preparing to meet with a wellrespected federal judge to discuss several concerns he had about his upcoming clerkship. The judge had a reputation for being a sometimes prickly and argumentative fellow, and John was anxious about losing his courage once he stepped into the judge's chambers.
John's  favorite  professor  offered  advice:  'Whenever  I  have  felt intimidated  or  mistreated  by  someone  above  me,  I  remember this - we are all equal in the eyes of God.'

## No More, But No Less (p208)

Regardless of our spiritual orientation, we can all benefit from the message: No matter who we are, no matter how high and mighty we fancy ourselves, or how low and unworthy we may feel, we all deserve to be treated with respect and dignity. My views and feelings are as  legitimate,  valuable,  and  important  as  yours - no  more,  but  no less. For some people, that's utterly obvious. For others, it comes as important news.
In an essay in her book, Sister Outsider , poet and activist Audre Lorde pondered the question of expression and entitlement shortly after she learned she had breast cancer:
I have come to believe . . . . that what is most important to me must be  spoken,  made  verbal  and  shared,  even  at  the  risk  of  having  it bruised or misunderstood. . . .
In becoming forcibly and essentially aware of my mortality, and of what I wished and wanted for my life, however short it might be, priorities and omissions became strongly etched in a merciless light, and what I most regretted were my silences. . . . I was going to die, if not sooner then later, whether or not I had ever spoken myself. My silences had not protected me. Your silence will not protect you. . . .
We can learn to work and speak when we are afraid in the same way we have learned to work and speak when we are tired. For we have been socialized to respect fear more than our own needs for language and definition, and while we wait in silence for that final luxury of fearlessness, the weight of that silence will choke us.
Lorde sees substantial risks in expressing oneself. But she recognizes  that  the  costs  of  silence  are  even  greater.  Recognizing your entitlement can help you find your voice in a conversation and the courage to stand up for yourself when you feel frightened or powerless.

## Beware Self-Sabotage (p209)

Sometimes we can feel trapped between the belief that we should stand up for ourselves and a hidden feeling that we don't deserve to be heard, that we're not entitled. In this situation our unconscious mind can offer a devious - and illusory -'solution': We go through the motions of trying, but incompetently, so that in the end we fail. We wait to speak until there's not enough time to deal with our concerns. We conveniently forget our materials. All our points suddenly disappear from our head. And voilà! All of our interests are satisfied: we can feel good about trying, and secretly satisfied that we didn't succeed. This is the art of self-sabotage.
If this feels like a familiar trick in your repertoire, then you may need  to  pay  more  attention  to  when  you  are  feeling  ambivalent. When you sense that vaguely sick or confused feeling, imagine an
enormous stop sign to halt you in your tracks. Before proceeding, you need to engage your Identity Conversation. Why aren't you entitled?  Whose  voice  from  your  past  do  you  hear  in  your  head  telling  you  you're  not?  What  would  you  need  to  feel  fully  entitled  to speak up?

## Failure to Express Yourself Keeps You Out of the Relationship (p210)

The ferry tickets to the island of Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts, read like many transportation tickets. Perforated in the middle, the ticket carries a warning that it will be 'void if detached.'
We run the same risks in difficult conversations. When we fail to share what's most important to us, we detach ourselves from others and damage our relationships.
Most of us actually prefer being with someone who will speak their mind. Angela broke off her engagement because her fiancé was 'too nice.' He never stated a preference, never argued, never raised his voice, never asked for anything. While she appreciated his kindness, she felt something was missing: him.
If you are sometimes lonely or despondent and never share this with those close to you, then you deny them the chance to come to know a part of you. You presume that they will not respect or like or admire you as much if they knew the way you really think and feel. But it's hard to present only this sanitized version of yourself. Often, to hide parts of who we are, we end up hiding all of who we are. And so we present a front that appears lifeless and removed.
Expressing yourself can be difficult and trying, but it gives the relationship a chance to change and to become stronger. Callie, a Native American woman, did not feel particularly close to her coworkers at a tutoring program for troubled teens. Partly because they were white, she suspected they wouldn't really understand her; indeed, she often found them to be insensitive.
But  one  day  she  took  a  risk  and  shared  some  stories.  She  described  how she had been called names and teased when she was younger, and how for years she yearned to be 'normal.' These revela-
tions significantly changed her relationship with her colleagues, who came  to  have  great  admiration  for  her.  Her  colleagues,  in  turn, felt  encouraged  to  share  their  own  stories  of  feeling  left  out  or awkward. If Callie had not shared her story, she would have deprived her  colleagues  of  the  chance  to  rebut  a  stereotype  she  herself harbored-that  'white  people  don't  understand  and  don't  care.' And she wouldn't have offered them the opportunity, perhaps for the first time, to understand and care about her.
A relationship takes hold and grows when both participants experience themselves and the other as being authentic. Such relationships are both more comfortable (it's more relaxing to be yourself) and nourishing to the soul ('My boss knows some of my vulnerabilities and still thinks I'm okay').

## Feel Entitled, Feel Encouraged, But Don't Feel Obligated (p211)

You are entitled to express yourself. If you do not believe this to your core then you've got some work to do.
But being entitled doesn't mean you're obligated. That turns entitlement into another way to beat yourself up: 'I should be saying what's  on  my  mind,  but  I'm  too  afraid.  I  can't  do  anything  right!' Expressing yourself is often extremely difficult. Finding the courage to do it is a lifelong process. If you aren't doing it as much as you'd like, it's something to work on, but not something to punish yourself about.

## Speak the Heart of the Matter (p211)

The first step toward expressing yourself is finding your sense of entitlement to speak up; the next step is figuring out what, exactly, you want to say.

## Start with What Matters Most (p212)

There's no better place to begin your story than with what is at the very heart of the matter for you: 'For me, what this is really about is . . . . What I'm feeling is . . . . What is important to me is . . . .'
Sharing what is important to you is common sense, and yet it's advice we often neglect. Consider the story of Charlie, the oldest of four brothers, who wants to improve his relationship with his youngest brother, sixteen-year-old Gage. Gage is dyslexic, which is especially  tough  since  his  older  brothers  all  graduated  near  the  top  of their high school classes and went to college on academic scholarships. Gage struggles in school, is prone to act out, and has increasingly turned to drinking for solace.
Charlie wants to help by offering the benefit of his experience and advice: 'You should definitely do the debate team. The coach is great, and it will help your college applications.' And, 'You know, Gage, don't overdo the drinking thing. It can really be bad news.' But whatever Charlie says makes Gage feel criticized, defensive, and patronized.  As  a  result,  the  two  brothers  have  grown  increasingly distant.
When  we  asked  Charlie  why  the  relationship  is  important  to him, the story took a different turn. Charlie admires the way Gage works so hard to succeed. He feels bad about how he treated Gage when they were younger. And ultimately, it turns out that Charlie needs deeply to feel like a good brother, who loves and is loved in turn. As he revealed this, Charlie cried.
When Charlie finally shared these things with his brother, Gage was riveted. Charlie needed him. Charlie needed Gage's help in being a good brother. It proved a turning point in their relationship.
Gage would have had to be a mind reader to perceive even a hint of these meanings in Charlie's original communication. The heart of the message simply wasn't there. Nor was there a hint of the enormous depth of feelings at stake. Instead, there was a completely different message in its place: 'You're a screw-up who needs my help and is too dumb to ask for it.'
This is unfortunately all too typical of many difficult conversations.  We  say  the  least  important  things,  sometimes  over  and  over again,  and  wonder  why  the  other  person  doesn't  realize  what  we really think and how we really feel.
As you embark upon a difficult conversation, ask yourself, 'Have I said what is at the heart of the matter for me? Have I shared what is at stake?' If not, ask yourself why, and see if you can find the courage to try.

## Say What You Mean: Don't Make Them Guess (p213)

One way we often skirt sharing things that are important to us is by embedding them in the subtext of the conversation rather than simply stating them outright.
Don't Rely on Subtext. Think back to the Introduction, where we discussed the dilemma of whether to engage in a conversation or to try to avoid it. One common way to manage this dilemma especially when you're not sure you're really entitled to bring something up -is to communicate through subtext. You try to get your message  across  indirectly,  through  jokes,  questions,  offhand  comments, or body language.
Bringing it up by not quite bringing it up seems a happy medium between avoiding and engaging. It is a way of doing neither and doing both. The problem is, to the extent you are doing both, you're doing both badly. You end up triggering all of the problems you worried  you'd  create  by  bringing  it  up,  without  getting  the  benefit  of clearly saying what you want to say.
Imagine that you and your husband have usually spent Saturdays sleeping in, puttering around the house, walking the dog, or doing errands together. Recently, however, he has discovered golf, and has begun playing eighteen holes every Saturday morning. Your Saturday regime has never been particularly important - it's not like it was a date or something -but now that it's gone, you're missing it. The two of you don't spend much time alone together during the rest of
the week, and as a result, you're feeling more and more irritated with his new hobby.
You  could  avoid  conflict  altogether  by  simply  saying  nothing, though as we've seen, your unhappiness would probably still leak out in  spite  of  yourself.  Or  you  might  try  to  bring  it  up  indirectly: 'Honey, there's really a lot to be done around the house this weekend.'  'Is  golf  so  important  that  you  need  to  play  it  this  often?' 'Honey, you are simply playing too much golf!'
None of these comments conveys what you really mean, which is: 'I want to spend more time with you.' Let's consider the text and subtext of what each statement is saying:
'Honey, there's really a lot to be done around the house this weekend.' This comment falls short on several grounds. First, it's  simply  the  wrong  subject.  Working  around the house is related to but different from spending time together. Second, even if  work  were the issue, the statement is shared as 'truth.' Your husband can reply, 'There's not that much to do, and we'll talk about it when I get back.'
'Is golf so important that you need to play it this often?' This is a classic example of a statement masquerading as a question. It's obvious that the meaning of the comment is conveyed in the subtext. What is less obvious is what the meaning is supposed to be. Your tone conveys anger or frustration. But it's not clear what is  causing  the  anger  or  what  your  husband  is  supposed  to  do about it. Are you angry that your husband is engaged in a meaningless sport rather  than  community  service  or  household chores? Are you angry that he's not taking you along? Are you angry that you aren't spending enough time together? How would he know?
'Honey,  you  are  simply  playing  too  much  golf!' This  statement is  an  opinion  couched  as  a  fact.  Your  husband  is  left  to wonder, 'Too much golf in relation to what?' 'How much golf is too much golf?' 'How much would be an appropriate amount of
golf?' 'Even if I am playing too much golf, so what?' Of course, even  if  he  knew  the  answers  to  these  questions,  he  would  not have received the message intended. The gap between 'You are playing too much golf ' and 'I would like to spend more time with you' is just too great.
To do better, you need to figure out what you are really thinking and feeling, and then say it directly: 'I'd like to spend more time with you, and Saturday morning was one of the few times we had to spend together. As a result, I'm finding your interest in golf irritating.'
Sometimes, you'll find yourself wishing you didn't have to be explicit. You wish the other person already knew that there was a problem  and  would  do  something  about  it.  This  is  a  common  and understandable fantasy - our ideal mate or perfect colleague should be able to read our mind and meet our needs without our having to ask. Unfortunately, such people don't exist. Over time, we may come to know better how we each think and feel, but we will never be perfect. Being disappointed that someone isn't reading our mind is one of our contributions to the problem.
Avoid Easing In. A related and often destructive way to communicate  through  subtext  is  what  Professor  Chris  Argyris  of  Harvard Business School has called easing in. Easing in is where you try to soften a message by delivering it indirectly through hints and leading questions. This is all too common in performance reviews: 'So, how do you think  you've  done?'  'Do  you  think  you've  really  done  as much as you could have?' 'I have the same problem, but it probably would have been a little better to . . . . Wouldn't you agree?'
Easing in conveys three messages: 'I have a view,' 'This is too embarrassing to discuss directly,' and 'I'm not going to be straight with you.' Not surprisingly, these messages increase both sides' anxiety and defensiveness. And the recipient's imagination almost always conjures up a message worse than the real one.
A better approach is to make the subject clear and discussable by stating  your  thoughts  straight  out,  while  also  indicating,  honestly, that you are interested in whether the other person sees the situation
differently and, if so, how: 'Based on what I know, it seems to me that you might have gotten more done. However, you know more about what happened. In what ways would you see it differently?' Then if you disagree, you can talk directly about how to test or otherwise reconcile or deal with your different views.

## Don't Make Your Story Simplistic: Use the 'Me-Me' And (p216)

We've all learned that for others to understand us, we need to make what  we  say  clear  and  simple.  Fair  enough,  as  far  as  it  goes.  The problem is this: What's going on in our heads is often a jumble of complex thoughts, feelings, assumptions, and perceptions. When we try to be simple, we often end up being incomplete.
Imagine that you receive a memo from a co-worker that leaves you confused. You are thinking, 'This memo shows incredible creativity, and at the same time is so badly organized that it makes me crazy.' In your attempt to be clear, you say, 'Your memo is so badly organized  it  makes  me  crazy,'  or  worse,  'Your  memo  makes  me crazy.'
You  can  avoid  oversimplifying  by  using  the  Me-Me  And.  The And Stance recognizes that each of various perceptions, feelings, and assumptions is important to talk about. This is true of the other person's  perceptions and your  perceptions,  the  other  person's  feelings and yours. It's also true of the various perceptions, feelings, and assumptions that are going on just inside you. The 'and' in this case is connecting two aspects of what you think or feel. And though complex, it's both clear and accurate. Me-Me And statements sound like this:
I  do  think  you  are  bright  and  talented, and I  think  you're  not working hard enough.
I feel badly for how rough things have been for you, and I'm feeling disappointed in you.
I'm upset with myself for not noticing that you were so lonely. And I also was having problems during that time.
I  feel  relieved  and  happy  that  I  finally  went  through  with  the divorce -it was the right decision. And I do miss him sometimes.
The Me-Me And is also useful for overcoming a common obstacle  to  starting  a  difficult  conversation:  the  fear  of  being  misunderstood. You think your team would be the best one to take on a new client, but fear that it will sound self-serving, that you're in it only for the glory and the bonus. If this is the fear, share it along with your argument: 'I have a view on this that I want to share, and I have to say that I'm nervous about doing so because I'm afraid it may sound selfserving. So if you see anything in what I say that doesn't seem legitimate, please say so and let's discuss it.' Or, in a different situation, 'I'm having a strong reaction here that I'd like to share, and I'm worried about feeling embarrassed if I'm not able to be clear or unemotional at first. I hope if that happens that you'll bear with me and help me stay with it until I can put it succinctly.'

## Telling Your Story with Clarity: Three Guidelines (p217)

Obviously, how you express yourself makes a difference. How you say what you want to say will determine, in part, how others respond to you, and how the conversation will go. So when you choose to share something important, you'll want to do so in a way that will maximize the chance that the other person will understand and respond productively. Clarity is the key.

## 1. Don't Present Your Conclusions as The Truth (p218)

Some  aspects  of  difficult  conversations  will  continue  to  be  rough even when you communicate with great skill: sharing feelings of vulnerability,  delivering  bad  news,  learning  something  painful  about how others see you. But presenting your story as the truth - which creates  resentment,  defensiveness,  and  leads  to  arguments - is  a wholly avoidable disaster.
It is an easy mistake to make. It's based on an error of thought: we often experience our beliefs, opinions, and judgments as facts. When you're arguing about a favorite movie or food or sports hero, sharing judgment as the truth is fine. But in difficult conversations it doesn't wash.  Facts  are  facts.  Everything  else  is  everything  else.  And  you need to be scrupulously vigilant about the distinction.
If you and your friend disagree about whether it is ever okay to spank your child, you add to the conflict if you state your view as the truth: 'Spanking children is just plain wrong.' This statement muddies the already turbulent waters, and your friend may hear it as accusatory or presumptuous. Instead of engaging you on the issue, your friend may react by saying, 'Who are you to  proclaim what's right and wrong?!'
Far  better  to  say  any  of  these:  'I  believe  spanking  children  is wrong,' 'I've read several books that say spanking children is harmful to  them,'  'I  was  spanked  as  a  child  and  I  feel  sad  and  frightened when I hear of a child being spanked,' or even 'I'm not sure why I feel  this  way,  but  I  just  feel  so  strongly  that  spanking  children  is wrong.' Each of these clearly distinguishes between what your view or feeling is and what the facts are.
Some words-like 'attractive,' 'ugly,' 'good,' and 'bad'- carry judgments that are obvious. But be careful with words like 'inappropriate,'  'should,'  or  'professional.'  The  judgments  contained  in these words are less obvious, but can still provoke the 'Who are you to tell me?!' response. If you want to say something is 'inappropriate,' preface your judgment with 'My view is that . . . .' Better still, avoid these words altogether.
This is not an argument that there is no truth, or that all opinions are equally valid. It simply distinguishes opinion from fact, and allows you to have a careful discussion that leads to better understanding  and  better  decisions  rather  than  to  defensiveness  and  pointless fighting.

## 2. Share Where Your Conclusions Come From (p219)

The first step toward clarity, then, is to share your conclusions and opinions as your conclusions and opinions and not as the truth. The second step is to share what's beneath your conclusions - the information you have and how you have interpreted it.
As we saw in Chapter 2, often we merely trade our conclusions back  and  forth,  and  never  get  into  the  process  of  exploring  where these views come from. You have information about yourself that the other person has no access to. That kind of information can be important; consider sharing it. And you have life experiences that are influencing what you think and why, as well as how you feel. When you tell these stories, it puts some meat onto the bones of your views.
You and your wife argue about whether to send your daughter, Carol, to private school. Your wife says, 'I really think we should do it this year. It's an important age and I know we can come up with the money.' You say in response, 'I think she's doing fine in public school. I think we should keep her there.'
If this conversation is going to get anywhere, the two of you need to share where these conclusions come from: What specific information is in your heads? What past experiences influence how you're thinking about this? You need to share your own experience in private school - the fear you felt the first few months, the sense of never quite fitting in. How guilty you felt that your parents weren't able to buy a car because they were paying your tuition for so many years. Tell that story with all the vividness and detail that's in your head as you discuss your concerns about the decision. Nothing else you say will make sense if your wife is unaware of the experiences that inform your feelings on this subject.

## 3. Don't Exaggerate with 'Always' and 'Never': Give Them Room to Change (p220)

In the heat of the moment, it's easy to express frustration through a bit of exaggeration: 'Why do you always criticize my clothes?' 'You never give  one  word  of  appreciation  or  encouragement.  The  only time  anyone  hears  anything  from  you  is  when  there's  something wrong!'
'Always' and 'never' do a pretty good job of conveying frustration, but they have two serious drawbacks. First, it is seldom strictly accurate  that  someone  criticizes every time,  or  that  they  haven't at  some point said something positive. Using such words invites an argument over the question of frequency: 'That's not true. I said several nice things to you last year when you won the interoffice new idea  competition'- a  response  that  will  most  likely  increase  your exasperation.
'Always' and 'never' also make it harder - rather than easier for the other person to consider changing their behavior. In fact, 'always' and 'never' suggest that change will be difficult or impossible. The implicit message is, 'What is wrong with you such that you are driven to criticize my clothes?' or even 'You are obviously incapable of acting like a normal person.'
A better approach is to proceed as if (however hard it may be to believe) the other person is simply unaware of the impact of their actions  on  you,  and,  being  a  good  person,  would  certainly  wish  to change their behavior once they became aware of it. You could say something like: 'When you tell me my suit reminds you of wrinkled old curtains, I feel hurt. Criticizing my clothes feels like an attack on my judgment and makes me feel incompetent.' If you can also suggest what you would wish to hear instead, so much the better: 'I wish I could feel more often like you believed in me. It would really feel great to hear even something as simple as, 'I think that color looks good on you.' Anything, as long as it was positive.'
The key is to communicate your feelings in a way that invites and encourages the recipient to consider new ways of behaving, rather
than suggesting they're  a  schmuck  and  it's  too  bad  there's  nothing they can do about it.

## Help Them Understand You (p221)

It's not easy to step into someone else's story. It's especially hard when the issues are emotionally charged or when your views are rooted in a different  generation  or  radically  dissimilar  corporate  culture.  You'll need their help in understanding them. And they'll need your help in understanding you.
If you feel overwhelmed with anxiety when leaving your children with a babysitter, and your husband says that you should 'just learn to relax,' you can express your anxiety in terms he might understand: 'It's like your fear of flying. You know how when I try to tell you to relax  during take-off it has no impact, and in fact it makes it worse? Well this is the same sort of thing.'
And recognize that different people take in information at different speeds and in different ways. For example, some people are visually oriented. For them, you may want to use visual metaphors and refer to pictures or, in a business setting, charts. Some people prefer to get their arms around the whole problem first, and can't listen to anything  else  you  say  until  they  do.  Others  like  all  the  details  up front. Pay attention to these differences.

## Ask Them to Paraphrase Back (p221)

Paraphrasing the other person helps you check your understanding and helps them know you've heard. You can ask them to do the same thing for you: 'Let me check to see if I'm being clear. Would you mind just playing back what you've heard me say so far?'

## Ask How They See It Differently -and Why (p222)

Explaining your story clearly is a first step toward being understood. But don't expect instant success. Real understanding may take some back and forth. If the other person seems puzzled or unpersuaded by your story, rather than putting it more forcefully or trying to tell it in a different way, ask how they see it. In particular, ask how they see it differently.
A common tendency is to ask for agreement, perhaps because it's reassuring: 'Does that make sense?' 'Wouldn't you agree?' But asking the other person how they see it differently is more helpful. If you ask for agreement, people may be reluctant to share their doubts and reservations. They aren't sure whether you really want to hear them. They say, 'Yes, I suppose so,' but you don't know whether they're actually thinking, 'Yes, in a limited, warped kind of way that's just like you.' If you ask explicitly for how they see it differently, you are more likely to discover their true reaction. Then you can begin to have a real conversation.
The secret of powerful expression is recognizing that you are the ultimate authority on you. You are an expert on what you think, how you feel, and why you've come to this place. If you think it or feel it, you are entitled to say it, and no one can legitimately contradict you. You only get in trouble if you try to assert what you are not the final authority on - who is right, who intended what, what happened. Speak fully the range of your experience and you will be clear. Speak for yourself and you can speak with power.

## 11 Problem-Solving: Take the Lead (p223)

It  may  be  that  the  person  you're  talking  to  has  read  this  book  and understands  how  to  engage  in  a  learning  conversation.  But  don't count on it.
More  likely,  you'll  talk  about  understanding,  and  they'll  talk about who's right. You'll talk about contribution, while they're stuck in blame. You'll bend over backwards to listen and acknowledge their feelings, and in return you'll be attacked, interrupted, and judged. You're doing your best to improve the way the two of you communicate; they're doing their best to ensure that no constructive communication  ever  occurs  between  you.  It  may  be  that  they  are  still worried  about  being  blamed,  or  don't  understand  the  terminology  you're  using.  Perhaps  they  don't  yet  trust  you  and  your  new behavior, which after all is different from the last time you had this conversation.

## Skills for Leading the Conversation (p223)

If your conversations are going to get anywhere, you're going to have to take the lead. There are a set of powerful 'moves' you can make during  the  conversation - reframing,  listening,  and  naming  the
dynamic-that can help keep the  conversation  on  track,  whether the other person is being cooperative or not.
When the other person heads in a destructive direction, reframing puts the conversation back on course. It allows you to translate unhelpful statements into helpful ones. Listening is not only the skill that lets you into the other person's world; it is also the single most powerful move you can make to keep the conversation constructive. And naming the dynamic is useful when you want to address a troubling aspect of the conversation. It is a particularly good strategy if the other person is dominating the conversation and seems unwilling to follow your lead.

## Reframe, Reframe, Reframe (p224)

Reframing means taking the essence of what the other person says and 'translating it' into concepts that are more helpful - specifically, concepts from the Three Conversations framework. You are walking down a new path and inviting the other person to join you. You're illuminating the way.
Let's  return  to  the  situation  between  Miguel  and  Sydney  from Chapter 4. Recall that Sydney is leading a team of engineers on a project in Brazil. After initially resisting her leadership, Miguel has become Sydney's most ardent supporter. Unfortunately for Sydney, Miguel's enthusiasm has apparently progressed to romantic interest as well. He has taken to following her around, expressing how much he  likes  spending  time  with  her,  and  inviting  her  for  quiet  walks alone on the beach.
When Sydney steps away from her own focus on blame, she begins to see the mixed signals she may be sending to Miguel. She realizes that by not expressing her discomfort directly, she is contributing to the situation. Sydney decides to raise the issue with Miguel. She knows that for the conversation to be successful, she's going to have to be persistent in reframing the conversation from blame to contribution. We pick up the dialogue partway in:
Sydney: I should have brought this up with you earlier, which is why it's really important to me that we talk about it now. . . .
Miguel: Of course you should bring it up with me if you feel uncomfortable! This is the reason you are uncomfortable. A team leader should know how to handle this better.
Sydney: Whether  I  should  or  shouldn't,  I  guess  I  didn't.  It makes  sense  to  me  that  by  not  bringing  it  up,  I  probably exacerbated the problem. Rather than focus on which one of  us  is  to  blame,  I'm  trying  to  figure  out  how  we  got  into this  spot  in  the  first  place.  I  think  we  each  did - or  didn't do-some things that made the situation worse.
Miguel: Well,  I  think  this  whole  thing  is  because  you  are American. American women are oversensitive to these issues and create problems where there aren't any.
Sydney: You and I could probably argue all day about whether or not American women are oversensitive. What's important is perhaps that you and I are coming at this from very different cultural perspectives. So I experienced your comments as suggestive and uncomfortable, and you seemed to see our interaction as not out of place in a working relationship. Is that right?
Miguel: That is true. For me, what I did was normal and not a big deal.
Sydney: When you say 'normal,' do you mean normal for two people in just a professional relationship? Or do you mean normal that two people in a professional relationship might choose to pursue something further?
Miguel: Either  one.  We  can  tease  each  other.  I  can  tell  you how much I like you. If you are not interested, you can ignore it.  If  you  are,  you  can  respond  in  kind.  The  problem here  is  that  you  are  overreacting,  and  you  should  have brought this up sooner.
Sydney: As I said at the beginning, I agree with you that if I had brought it up, we might have avoided some of this. I think I felt frustrated that I was trying to ignore it, and you persisted.
Like  when  I  kept  turning  down  your  invitations  to  have  a drink in the bar or take a walk on the beach.
Miguel: You know, there were times I could tell something was wrong. I suppose I could have also asked you if things were okay, or if I had offended you for some reason. And maybe we should have just talked about our expectations of each other up front. . . .
With this last statement Miguel is finally starting to sense the difference between contribution and blame, and is starting to feel comfortable enough to begin to acknowledge his own contribution. But to get to this point, Sydney had to be persistent in redirecting him away from blame.

## You Can Reframe Anything (p226)

Reframing works on all fronts; you can reframe anything the other person says to move toward a learning conversation. Consider these examples:
They say: I'm right, and there are no two ways about it!
You  reframe: I  want  to make  sure  I  understand your perspective. You obviously  feel  very  strongly about  it.  I'd  also  like  to share  my  perspective  on the situation.
They  say: You hurt me on purpose! You reframe: I can see that  you're  feeling  really angry  about  what  I  did,
which is upsetting to me. It wasn't my intention. Can you say more about how you felt?
You reframe: I'm sure I've contributed to the problem; I think we both have. Rather than focus on whose fault this is, I'd like just to look at how we got here - at what we each contributed to the situation.
You are the nastiest person I've ever met.
It sounds like you're feeling really badly.
You reframe: Heavens, I don't think you are either. And I certainly hope you don't think I'm a lousy neighbor. I do think that  we  disagree  about  how  this  should  be  handled,  and  I think  that's  pretty  normal  between  good  neighbors.  The question is whether we can work together to figure out how to address both of our concerns.
Of  course,  one  sentence  alone  is  unlikely  to  do  the  trick,  but these examples give you a sense of where to start. Like Sydney, you'll need to be persistent, and you should expect to be constantly reframing the conversation to help keep it on a productive track.

## The 'You-Me' And (p227)

A second reframing move you can make is from 'either/or' to 'and.' If the other person is setting up a choice between what you think and what they think, between how you feel and how they feel, you can reject that choice by moving to the And Stance.
In the previous chapter, we took a look at the Me-Me And. In terms of managing the interactive conversation, it is the You-Me And that is crucial. This is not the 'and' within us, but between us. It's
the one that says, 'I can listen and understand what you have to say, and you can listen and understand what I have to say.'
Stacy  found  the  You-Me  And  helpful  in  her  quest  to  find  her birth  mother.  Stacy's  adoptive  mother,  Joyce,  argued  that  Stacy's search was sure to be fruitless and painful. Stacy avoided engaging in an argument over whether or not that was true by using 'and' to embrace both stories: 'You might be right. It may be that all my efforts won't turn up anything, and even if I do find her, I might be disappointed. She might not want to see me at all. And it's still important to me to try. Here's why. . . .'
When Joyce said, 'After all we've done to love you and raise you, what could you possibly need that your birth mother could provide?' Stacy responded with some Me-Me Ands and You-Me Ands. If this sounds complex, it is. And that's why Stacy's response was so constructive  and  effective:  'It  sounds  like  my  search  is  really  hard  for you. You're the best mother in the world, and the only mother I'll ever have. That's not going to change. This is hard for me too, because it's hard for me to see you feeling hurt like this - sometimes I think I'm just being selfish or ungrateful. At the same time, I have questions that I really want to answer. I hope we can keep talking about what this means to each of us as I begin to pursue this.' Stacy was able to assert herself without invalidating the power and importance of her mother's concerns.

## It's Always the Right Time to Listen (p228)

No matter how good you get at reframing, the single most important rule about managing the interaction is this: You can't move the conversation in a more positive direction until the other person feels heard and  understood. And  they  won't  feel  heard  and  understood  until you've listened. When the other person becomes highly emotional, listen and acknowledge. When they say their version of the story is the  only  version  that  makes  sense,  paraphrase  what  you're  hearing and ask them some questions about why they think this. If they level
accusations against you, before defending yourself, try to understand their view.
Whenever you feel overwhelmed or unsure how to proceed, remember that it is always a good time to listen.

## Be Persistent About Listening (p229)

We often assume that the listener is playing a passive role in the conversation, but that's not necessarily true. You can use listening to direct the conversation.
Consider this telephone conversation between Harpreet and his wife, Monisha. Monisha is a sales representative for a large pharmaceutical  company and spends a significant amount of time on the road. The distance highlights what has been a tense issue throughout their relationship.
Monisha: Okay, well, I better get some sleep. I've got a big pre- sentation first thing in the morning.
Monisha: Yeah,  Thursday  night.  I  should  be  home  around seven.
Harpreet: Okay, sleep tight. . . . [silence] I love you.
Harpreet hangs up hurt and frustrated. 'She never tells me that she  loves  me,'  he  complains.  'Whenever  I  bring  it  up,  she'll  say something like, 'You know I love you, so why do I need to say it all the time?' '
This issue is obviously important to Harpreet. And for that reason,  it  makes  sense  that  he  should  be  persistent  in  raising  it  with Monisha. Many people think that being persistent means asserting your view -in other words, that Harpreet should just repeat himself. But that doesn't work.
You have to find a way to be persistent, while remembering that
you are in a two-way conversation. Persistence in a difficult conversation means remaining as stubbornly interested in hearing the other person's views as you are in asserting your own.
In thinking through the Three Conversations, Harpreet began to be curious about why Monisha reacted the way she did. In the next conversation, Harpreet decided that his purpose was mainly to listen, ask questions, and try to understand how Monisha experienced this issue.
Harpreet: When I say that I love you, what are you thinking?
Monisha: I'm thinking, 'Okay, he's waiting for me to say it back to him.' So it makes me not want to say it then, because I feel pressured into it. Besides, you know I love you.
Harpreet: Sometimes I do feel confident that you love me. But sometimes I feel less sure. When you say that I know, how are you thinking I would know?
Monisha: Well, I'm still with you, right?
Harpreet: That's  a  pretty  low  standard!  Besides,  my  parents stayed together for years after they stopped loving each other. Maybe that's why I sometimes feel nervous about this. . . .
Monisha: Hmm. I guess I have the opposite experience. My parents were crazy about each other, and were always saying these sappy things in front of us. I thought it was embarrassing. It just seems like if you really love each other you don't have to say it all the time. You can just show it.
Monisha: I don't know, like by being kind to each other. Like when I dropped everything and flew to Phoenix that weekend your mom was sick. I did it because I knew how hard it was for you, and I wanted to be there to help. . . .
Harpreet  and  Monisha  have  some  distance  to  go.  But  simply by  listening  through  the  retorts  and  arguments  for  the  feelings and  stories,  Harpreet  is  helping  them  have  a  much  more  interesting  and  constructive  conversation  on  a  topic  that  is  hard  for  both of them.

## Name the Dynamic: Make the Trouble Explicit (p231)

Reframing and listening involve leading the conversation in the direction you want it to go. These tools are powerful, and most of your conversations  will  call  on  both.  Sometimes,  though,  they  are  not enough. No matter how well you listen, no matter how many times you reframe, the other person will continue to interrupt, attack, or dismiss you. Every time you begin to get somewhere, they have another reason why the problem isn't a problem after all. Or perhaps they're acting upset, but each time you ask about it, they say, 'No, no, I'm fine. I'm not upset at all.'
At times like these, naming the dynamic can help. You put on the table as a topic for discussion what you see happening in the conversation itself. In a sense, you are acting as your own 'conversation doctor,'  diagnosing  the  problem  and  prescribing  a  way  back  to health. These kind of diagnoses, and suggestions, sound like this:
I've  noticed  that  we  keep  running  out  of  time  whenever  we  start talking  about  this.  Maybe  we  should  designate  an  hour  when  we can both really focus on this and address it then.
I've tried to say what I was thinking three times now, and each time you've started talking over me. I don't know whether you're aware that it's happening, but I'm finding it frustrating. If there's something important  about  what  you're  saying  that  I'm  not  understanding, please share it. And then I want to be able to finish what I'm saying.
Here's what I'm noticing. I ask you if you are feeling hurt by what I said, and you say, 'No, no, no, of course not. I'm not that kind of person.' But then you keep acting toward me in ways that people act when they're hurt or mad at me. At least that's how I'm seeing this. It seems to me the best thing to do is to try to figure out what I'm doing that might be upsetting to you. Otherwise, I don't think we're going to get anywhere.
Hang on a second. Several times now, when I've said the things that are important to me, you've gotten very angry to the point where I
feel threatened. I don't know what's causing your response. If you're upset, I'm interested to hear why. If you're trying to intimidate me into  changing  my  mind,  it  won't  work.  I  really  do  want  to  know what's upsetting you, and I want us to find a way to talk about it that doesn't feel intimidating to me.
Naming the dynamic between you can be enormously helpful in clearing the air. It draws what you are each really thinking and feeling but not saying onto the table for honest discussion. And it can stop frustrating interactions in their tracks; often the other person is not  aware  that  they  are  doing  something  that  is  upsetting  to  you. However, it does take the conversation off the substance, and sometimes,  it  can  escalate  tension.  So  naming  the  dynamic  is  probably best thought of as something to try when nothing else has worked.

## Now What? Begin to Problem-Solve (p232)

Often simply sorting out the Three Conversations and bringing to light the heart of the matter for each person clears up the issues between you. But not always. You've come a long way in understanding each other's stories, and untangling what's happened. You have a better grasp on the feelings involved. But at the end of the day, you still need to decide how to go forward together, and you may not agree on how to do that.
This is the time for problem-solving. Fundamentally, problemsolving  consists  of  gathering  information  and  testing  your  perceptions, creating options that would meet both sides' primary concerns, and, where you can't, trying to find fair ways to resolve the difference.

## It Takes Two to Agree (p232)

Difficult conversations require a certain amount of compromise and mutual accommodation to the other's needs. If  you  find  problemsolving difficult and anxiety producing, it may be because you are fo-
cused on persuading them. Those caught in this trap struggle like a fish on a hook, desperately trying to satisfy the seemingly insatiable demands of the other and reach some reasonable agreement on how to move forward. And no wonder. This frame gives the other side total control - until and unless they are satisfied, you must continue to struggle.
Describing the pattern this way illuminates its flaw: there are two people involved, and there will be no agreement unless both concur. You need to persuade them no more and no less than they need to persuade you. Thus, you always have the option to turn the tables, to invite them to persuade you and insist that they do. As long as you are open to persuasion, and prepared, if absolutely necessary, to live with no agreement, you can do this as firmly as you would like: 'I understand  that  you  are  determined  to  have  your  article  reviewed  this week, and I'm still not persuaded that I should spend my vacation doing it.'
For many people, realizing that they don't have to agree brings a sense of great liberation, relief, and empowerment.

## Gather Information and Test Your Perceptions (p233)

Henry had planned this weekend away with friends months ago. He worked extra hours all week finishing up the new displays and work schedules.  It  was  Friday  morning  when  Henry's  boss,  Rosario,  approached him in the back room.
'Hank, I've got big problems with this supplier. We've got to get it figured out over the weekend, so that we're sure we've got the stock to handle the holiday rush next month,' she explained. 'I'm really sorry, because I know that you had plans this weekend. But I need you to stay. I'm sure you can reschedule with your friends, right?'
Propose Crafting a Test. Rather than explode or argue, Henry decided  to  learn  more  about  why  Rosario  was  so  concerned.  As Henry and Rosario sorted through their stories, they discovered that they  had  different  assumptions  about  their  relationship  with  the
supplier in question. Henry believed that even if they ran into problems down the road, the supplier would work with them to rush their order  overnight.  Rosario  has  had  too  many  bad  experiences  with suppliers over the years to believe that anything other than getting it  right  the  first  time  would  ensure  that  the  holidays  would  go smoothly.
Divergent views are often rooted in one or more conflicting assumptions or hypotheses. If these can be identified, then you can discuss  what  would  constitute  a  fair  test  of  which  assumption  is empirically valid, or to what extent it is valid. Henry suggested that they call the supplier and ask about the availability of the stock in question, and whether someone would be willing to work with them if  they  ran  into  problems  in  the  coming  weeks.  Rosario  wanted  to make sure they asked a series of what-if questions and established a personal relationship with someone on the other end who could take responsibility for making it work. To be persuasive, of course, such a test needs to satisfy both parties that it is fair and adequate.
Say What Is Still Missing. As you struggle with conflicting perceptions and conclusions, each of you needs to say unambiguously where the other person's story still doesn't make sense to you. As you follow their reasoning, what's missing that would make their version make sense?  So  Henry  might  say,  'I  think  I  understand  now  why stock problems caused us to lose money last year. It does seem that we need to get it sorted out early. Yet right now we've got a thirty-day head start on the problem, so I'm not understanding why this weekend is going to make the difference.'
Say What Would Persuade You. Being open to persuasion is a powerful stance to have. It allows you to be honest and firm about your current views, and to listen to theirs. 'Based on my understanding, it seems to me that my assistant manager, Bill, has the training to do the inventory this weekend, giving me a head start on the problem next week. Is your understanding different? Maybe you've got concerns about Bill that would be persuasive to me.'
Ask What (If Anything) Would Persuade Them. 'I have offered a  number  of  what  seem  to  me  good  reasons  why  it  doesn't  make sense for me to cancel my plans and work this weekend. Yet you remain adamant that I stay. Is there a reason I haven't heard? If not, I'm wondering if there is anything I could say that would persuade you otherwise and, if so, what it would be?'
Ask  Their  Advice. 'Help  me  understand  how  you  would  feel and  how  you  might  think  about  the  situation,  if  you  were  in  my shoes. What would you do? Why? Could you imagine a way of staying that would not end up making it more likely that something like this would happen again?'
Our experience has been that people who understand that persuasion must be a two-way street rarely find themselves in situations like this. Their reputation for not being a pushover gains them both general respect and a wider berth from those who might otherwise be inclined to try taking advantage.

## Invent Options (p235)

Let's come back to your neighbors with the barking dog. When you finally raise the issue, you learn that they feel the dog's barking is important for security reasons, and that the reason he's left outside at night  is  that  they  fear  he  might  accidentally  hurt  the  new  baby (whom  he  adores).  This  makes  sense  to  you, and you  are  able nonetheless to share how frustrating and exhausting it is for you to be kept awake. When it comes time to figure out what to do about it, you may get stuck. Your answer (get rid of the dog) isn't so appealing to  them,  and  their  answer  (wear  earplugs  or  close  the  windows) seems ridiculous to you.
Many difficult situations are amenable to creative solutions that meet most of everyone's needs, but which may not be obvious and may take some effort to find. This calls for determined joint brainstorming. 'I wonder if we can work to find a creative way to meet
both interests here. What do you think? Are you willing to try?' Odds are, persistence will pay off.
Brainstorming might yield some useful ideas. For example, your son might spend time with the neighbors' dog so that the dog gets more  exercise  and  attention  during  this  busy  period  with  the  new baby. This might also meet some of your son's interests in getting a dog of his own. Or your neighbors might decide to get a second dog to keep the first one company, or to bring the dog indoors after 10 p.m. and close the door to the baby's room. Or perhaps they'll ask you to call when the barking starts to bother you, so that they can address the problem right away and you don't spend another sleepless night.
What's more important is that you both recognize that if you are going to continue to live next door, you need to work together to find a solution that satisfies everyone - you, them, and the dog.

## Ask What Standards Should Apply (p236)

Generally the best way to manage conflict in a way that safeguards a relationship is to look for standards or fair principles to guide a resolution, rather than trying to haggle with or intimidate the other person. If you can't find a creative way to solve the problem, ask what standards of fairness should apply, and why. In the case of the dog, there  may  be  a  local  ordinance  pertaining  to  noise,  or  a  method other  dog  owners  in  the  neighborhood  have  used  to  keep  their pooches quiet. Industry or local practices, legal precedents, and ethical principles all offer ways to settle the matter without anyone having to back down or lose face.
Not  all  standards  are  equally  persuasive,  of  course.  Some  will seem more directly on point, more widely accepted, or more immediately relevant in terms of time, place, or circumstance. This is one more topic for discussion as you explore the relative fairness of different standards.
The Principle of Mutual Caretaking. One dynamic to remember at this stage of a difficult conversation is the tendency we all have
to believe that our way of doing things is the 'right' way. This can lead  us  to  ascribe  the  problem  to  something  wrong  with  'the  way they are,' and to suggest a 'solution' that boils down to doing it our way: 'If you would just change, there wouldn't be a problem.'
The frustration is understandable, but the argument is not persuasive. Both the challenge and the spice of relationships is in people's  differences.  Occasional  frustration  is  the  price  of  admission. And as we've noted, no relationship will endure if one party always gives in to the other. A good resolution will usually require each party to accommodate somewhat to the other's differences, or perhaps to reciprocate - going one way on some issues and the other way on others. This is the principle of mutual caretaking.

## If You Still Can't Agree, Consider Your Alternatives (p237)

Not every conflict can be resolved by mutual agreement. Sometimes, even after highly skilled communication, you and the other person will simply fail to come up with an option that works for both of you. Then you're faced with a decision: Should you accept less than what you want, or should you accept the consequences of not agreeing?
Let's  come  back  to  Henry  and  Rosario.  Rosario's  the  boss. Henry's a valuable employee. If they can't arrive at a solution to the problem of whether Henry will work the weekend, then they each face some choices. Each needs to think about what they will do if they can't arrive at a solution together.
If  you  are  going  to  walk  away  without  agreeing,  you  need  two things. First, you need to explain why you are walking away. What interests  and  concerns  are  not  met  by  the  solutions  you've  been  discussing? Let's imagine Henry decides to take the weekend off despite Rosario's continued insistence that he stay. Rather than just storming out, Henry should be clear about his feelings, interests, and choices. He might say, 'Rosario, I really am sorry. I want very much to be a good employee, and to help out when I can. Normally, I'm happy to work weekends and nights -I hope you've seen that in the past. It's simply a matter of notice. I feel badly about leaving you in the lurch;
at the same time, these plans are really important to me, and I gave you  plenty  of  notice  and  worked  hard  all  week  so  that  I  could  go away.  So  I  don't  like  the  choice,  but  given  the  choice,  I'm  going to go.'
Now Henry needs the second thing: a willingness to accept the consequences. He may return on Monday to find that he no longer has a job. If he can live with that, or indeed prefers that, then going off with his friends makes sense. And as often as not, he may return to find  Rosario  is  both  unhappy and more respecting of him and his time. Perhaps she will even apologize, or ask to talk about how to avoid such situations in the future.
If Henry can't live with the possibility of losing his job, then his best choice is probably to work the weekend. He'll feel disappointed that  he  didn't  get  to  spend  time  with  his  friends,  but  he'll  know he  handled  the  conversation  skillfully  and  made  a  wise  choice  in the end.

## It Takes Time (p238)

Most difficult conversations are not, in actuality, a single conversation.  They  are  a  series  of  exchanges  and  explorations  that  happen over  time.  Assuming  that  Henry  and  Rosario  work  things  out  this time,  there  will  be  plenty  of  other  issues  that  arise  between  them. Work demands will continue to be high, and they'll have to work together to figure out ways to balance this with Henry's personal commitments. Michael and Jack, the friends arguing over the brochure in Chapter 1, will need to find ways to repair their friendship, and explore whether and how to work together in the future. You and your neighbors will have to try out having your son care for the dog, or letting the dog inside at night, and see how it goes. And however it goes, you should have follow-up conversations to check in and, if necessary, look for new ways to cope.

## 12 (p239)


## Putting It All Together (p239)

Jack would like to take another crack at a conversation with Michael.
'I thought that once we got the brochure out of the way, things would settle down between us,' he explains. But months later, Michael remains distant and the friendship has become awkward. Jack knows he should talk to Michael, but about what? Jack believes that the bottom line is this: Michael was just being a jerk.

## Step One: Prepare by Walking Through the Three Conversations (p239)

In preparation for his conversation Jack sat down and walked himself through  the  Three  Conversations,  making  notes  to  himself  about how Michael might  be  seeing  things,  and  what  they've  each  contributed to the problem (an abbreviated version of Jack's notes is included on p. 218). Along the way, Jack made a few discoveries. He realized that Michael probably didn't know Jack had put aside other things and had worked through the night. Jack doesn't really know whether  Michael  meant  to  intimidate  him.  He  saw  the  ways  in which he had contributed to the problem by not raising his feelings with Michael at the time, or as soon as the brochure was done.
This reinforced Jack's determination to change this contribution and raise his feelings now. 'Rethinking my assumptions about what

## Jack's Preparation Notes (p240)

happened succeeded in shaking my confidence that I was right and that the problem here was Michael,' says Jack. 'Probably the biggest thing I realized was just that I didn't really understand this thing at all from Michael's perspective. I'm willing to try.'
Shaking your confidence may seem like a funny way to prepare for a conversation. But as a result, Jack is more open to hearing what Michael  has  to  say,  more  curious  about  learning  what  he  doesn't know (like about Michael's intentions, or what Michael thinks Jack has contributed). And in an important sense, Jack is more confident. Accepting his own role in the problem has helped him to feel more grounded rather than less. While he's no longer sure that his story is 'right' and that Michael's is 'wrong,' Jack is absolutely certain that each of their stories matters.

## Step Two: Check Your Purposes and Decide Whether to Raise It (p242)

Most important, Jack feels more secure that raising these issues is a good thing to try regardless of how Michael reacts. 'At first, as I considered whether to raise this issue again, I thought, 'Well, what if Michael thinks it's not important, or just brushes it off? Then I'll feel foolish, or like I failed.' I played with the idea of not raising things, but  I  would  have  been  running  away  rather  than  making  a  clearheaded choice to let go.
'So I wanted to raise it, but I was nervous. Then I remembered the advice about not trying to control the other person's reaction. I'm raising it because I think it's important, and I'm going to do it as well as I can, and if Michael isn't interested in talking, or if he isn't open, well, at least I tried, and I can feel good that I stuck up for myself.'
Below,  we  present  parts  of  the  conversation  between  Jack  and Michael  as  it  might  realistically  go - with  one  difference:  to  put what Jack is doing well and less well into higher relief, we're giving him a consultant to coach him when he gets stuck. We're also going to give Jack the chance to start and stop, and to start over if things aren't going quite right.

## Step Three: Start from the Third Story (p243)

Below, Jack's first try at getting started, and the result.
Jack: Listen,  Michael,  say  what  you  will,  but  the  problem  on that financial brochure was that after all the work I did, you treated me badly, and you know it!
Michael: The problem on that project was that I had the poor judgment to use you in the first place. I'll never make that mistake again!
JACK: Okay, cut. This isn't going right.
JACK: I don't know. He didn't react very well.
COACH: Notice that you began the conversation from inside your story.
JACK: I should have started from the Third Story. That's right. I'll start over.
Jack: Michael, I've been thinking a lot about what happened between us on the financial brochure. I found the experience frustrating, and I suspect you did as well. What's most worrisome to me is that it feels like it has affected our friendship. I wonder whether we could talk about that? I'd like to understand better what was happening for you, and how you felt about  working  together,  and  I'd  also  like  to  share  what  I found upsetting.
Michael: Well, Jack, the problem is that you're just not careful  enough, and then you can't admit it when you make a mistake. It really made me angry when you started making excuses.
JACK: Okay, he's attacking me. I thought if I started from the Third Story he was supposed to be nicer.
COACH: Well, Michael's reaction wasn't nearly as confrontational  as  it  was  in  your  first  try.  You're  actually  off  to  a good start. You did a great job of beginning from the Third Story. Remember, persistence. Michael's not immediately going to understand that you're trying to have a learning conversation. You have to be prepared for him to be somewhat defensive.
COACH: He's already into his story. The best thing you can do for the conversation is to listen from a stance of real curiosity, to ask questions, and to pay special attention to the feelings behind the words.

## Step Four: Explore Their Story and Yours (p244)

Jack: You felt I was making excuses? Say more about that.
Michael: The truth is,  Jack,  you  shouldn't  have  argued  with me  about  the  chart.  You  should  have  just  redone  the brochure.
Jack: So your thinking was that since the graph was off, it was up to me to correct it and reprint the brochures. And it sounds like when I questioned this, that was frustrating for you.
Michael: Yeah, it  was  frustrating.  I  had  the  client  breathing down my neck, already less than happy with us.
Michael: Because she thought this photograph in one of the other publications was the wrong one. It wasn't, but you just don't  argue  at  times  like  that.  That's  what  really  frustrated me, Jack. You don't seem to understand that the customer is always right.
Jack: So the client was already looking for things to be unhappy about?
Michael: It sure felt that way. And if there was something you were going to screw up, the revenue chart was the first thing she was going to notice. Her investors are already unhappy with some of her recent decisions. Yes, the chart was only off by a small amount, and it's not something we'd always rerun, but in this case, given the situation, it was something that we had to get just right.
Jack: I  didn't  realize  some  of  this  background.  It  sounds  like there was a lot going on for you during all of this.
JACK: Yeah, maybe. It's helpful, actually. I'm beginning to get a sense for how he's seeing things. But he's not getting a sense for how I'm seeing things. When do I get to give my side of the story?
COACH: You've done some good listening. Michael may be in a better place to start to listen to you.
Jack: From my point of view, Michael, the problem was that I did this favor for you, and then you mistreated me. You acted badly.
COACH: Cut! Yes, you want to move into your perspective, but first  you  need  a  transition  sentence,  something  that  acknowledges that you're beginning to understand his view on this, and that you want to share yours. And when you do share yours, if you want to share feelings, do so. But what you said above is a judgment about Michael, which is rarely helpful. Better to say how you feel.
Jack: I'm beginning to get a sense for how you're seeing things, and that's helpful to me. I also want to try to give you a sense for how I was seeing things, and for how I was feeling.
Jack: Hmm. I'm not always good at talking about my feelings, but I'll try. I felt hurt by some of the things you said -
Michael: Jack,  I  wasn't  trying  to  hurt  you,  I  just  needed  the brochure done right! Sometimes I think you're too sensitive.
JACK: Okay, after all the listening I did, now he's gone and interrupted me right off the bat. I didn't even get a chance to get the first sentence out. That's just how Michael is. He always interrupts, and I can never get what I think on the table.
COACH: This is where you have to be persistent, a little more assertive in getting your story out there. You can interrupt him to create space for what you're trying to say. You need to be very explicit that you are still explaining your view, and you'd like him to listen.
Jack: Well, hang on a second. Before we get into how you feel about how I feel, I just want to tell you a little more about how I'm seeing things.
Michael: That's fine, but what I'm saying is that you're taking this question of our business interactions too personally -
JACK: He did it again. See? That's what he does.
COACH: He is good at interrupting. So how are you feeling at this point?
COACH: So you have a few choices here. You could give up, but I think it's way too early for that. You could do some more listening, which is always a good idea. But let's say
you  don't  want  to  do  that  at  the  moment.  Instead,  you could try  two  other  things.  One  is,  you  could  simply  reassert that you want to get your view on the table, and I suspect that would eventually work. A second is you could share your frustration at being interrupted.
JACK: If I do that he'll interrupt to tell me I shouldn't be frustrated. I think I'll try once more to be assertive.
Jack: Michael, I understand you think I'm taking things too personally. We can come to that. Before we do, I want to give you a better sense of where I'm at.
COACH: Brilliant! You started with listening, and paraphrasing his sense that you take things too personally. For him, that helps take away the need to keep saying it. And now you're in a good place to continue your story.
Jack: So bear with me. Um, here's the thing. When you called, here's what I was thinking to myself: 'Oh my God, I'm already overloaded at the moment. I need to get the Anders materials out by tomorrow, and I'm supposed to have dinner with Charlotte tonight.' And then I thought, 'Well, I'm just going to have to call the Anders folks and let them know their stuff will be a day late, and call Charlotte and cancel dinner.' Because,  Michael,  you  sounded  like  it  was  an  emergency, and I really wanted to help you out.
Jack: But you never said that. From my point of view, after making  these  sacrifices,  the  first  feedback  I  heard  was,  'Gee, Jack,  you  really  screwed  this  one  up!'  Can  you  see  why  I would feel upset by that?
Michael: I shouldn't have said that, Jack. I meant to say thank
really upset when you try to deny that you've done something wrong. He's making one of the big mistakes around impact and intentions, and you're making the other one. In Michael's statement, he's assuming he knows what you were trying to do, what your intentions were.
COACH: Right. So he's making the mistake of assuming he knows what your intentions are when in fact he doesn't. When  we  do  that  in  conversations,  it  creates  just  what happened here. The other person defends himself, and you get into a pointless argument.
COACH: The  best  way  to  handle  confusion  around  impact and intent isn't to defend yourself. First, you have to acknowledge  the  other  person's  feelings,  and  only  then should you try to clarify what your intentions were.
Jack: I hear that my response was frustrating for you.
Michael: It was. I'm not trying to be a bad guy. I'm just trying to get it done right.
Jack: Let me try to explain my response. I wasn't trying to pretend nothing was wrong, or trying to put one over on you. I genuinely felt that the graph was fine the way it was. As we've talked about it, I see that my reaction wasn't based on all the information. I'm not sure what I think about the graph at this point. What I do know is that if I thought it should be redone I'd be the first to admit it.
Michael: I don't know about that. I still get a sense that you are sometimes defensive about making mistakes.
COACH: You did a great job of sorting through the intentions question.  It's  not  easy.  Now  we're  getting  into  another tricky area. Is it true, in your heart of hearts, that you have
JACK: Of course not! I hate making mistakes. I can't stand it. It makes me crazy when I make a mistake, especially a stupid one.
COACH: So why did you say you have no problem with them? JACK: I guess I didn't want to admit that I do have a little bit of trouble around owning up to mistakes.
COACH: Here's the thing. Michael, for one reason or another, senses that you have issues around making mistakes. You might do better by sharing some of your Identity Conversation with him. It's a risk, but in this case, not a very big one since he seems to already know it.
Jack: Actually, Michael, as I think about it, admitting mistakes is something I do sometimes have trouble with. Even that is hard for me to say.
Michael: Well, I appreciate your saying that. I wish you'd just admit them and then we can get on to the work of correcting them.
Jack: Well, I don't want to confuse two issues. I did make a mistake with the graph, and it was my strong judgment, at least at the time we were talking, that the problem was so inconsequential that it didn't need to be redone.
COACH: Fabulous. You owned up to a real issue you have, and you also did a great job of using the And Stance to clarify that in this case you felt like you were using good judgment.
JACK: So what's next for me? Are we almost done?
COACH: You're  getting  there.  What  else  feels  important  for you to say? What else feels important for you to learn?
JACK: We've talked about what I did wrong on the brochure, but  we  haven't  talked  at  all  about  what  Michael  did wrong. After all, he reviewed it and gave me the go-ahead.
COACH: That's an important issue. See if you can bring it up as an issue of joint contribution rather than blame.
Jack: Michael,  there's  another  issue  I  want  to  raise.  I  get  the sense that you're thinking the fact that the brochure was off was entirely my doing.
Michael: Jack, we don't need to get into that again. I'm not trying to beat you over the head with it. I understand that you worked hard on the brochure and I appreciate that.
Jack: I know. I just want to offer a different angle on this blame question. You're reaction was that since I did the work, the graph problem was my fault. And my initial reaction was that since you looked it over and gave the go-ahead it was also your fault -
Michael: No, I never said I  proofread  it.  That  was  your  job. What I indicated was that assuming there were no mistakes, it was okay for you to print.
Jack: That's just my point. I'm saying that we both had a hand in the problem. We misunderstood each other. I'm not saying there's a right or wrong. If we had each understood the other more clearly, we would have been less likely to have gotten into the mess we did.
Michael: That's certainly true. But so what?
Jack: The point is, we are more likely to avoid this kind of problem  in  the  future  if  we  are  more  careful  to  communicate clearly. I should have asked you point-blank whether you had read the brochure carefully, and you might have said more clearly  that  you  had  not.  Either  one  of  those  would  have been useful, and would be useful next time.
JACK: Wow. That was much easier to discuss than blame, and much more helpful.
COACH: And notice that talking about contribution focuses
you naturally on problem-solving. Let's work a bit more on that.  You  each  have  your  own  view  on  whether  the brochure  should  have  been  redone.  Do  a  little  problemsolving on that issue.

## Step Five: Problem-Solving (p252)

Jack: Michael, let's think about how we should handle a difference of judgment if it happens again in the future. For example, whether the brochure needs to be redone.
Michael: I think as the client in this situation, we should just do it my way. I don't see it as some sort of joint decision.
Jack: I agree, in terms of the final decision. You should make it in that case. I guess I'm wondering how to give you the benefit of my judgment before the decision is made. I can imagine there will be times when you have a certain view, and then we talk about it, and you change your mind.
Michael: That's true. So maybe if we're more clear about what the purpose of the conversation is, then instead of thinking you're trying to make the final decision, I'll know that you're just giving me your opinion.
Michael: But sometimes I don't have time to have a long conversation about it.
Jack: I understand that. It would help me if you would tell me that. Otherwise I don't understand why you're getting so frustrated in the conversation.
Michael: So I can just say, 'I don't have time to talk about it'? Jack: Yes, and also tell me why. That you've got to get something out by noon, or that this revenue issue is a touchy one, or that  we  can  talk  about  it  later.  It'll  only  take  five  seconds, and  it'll  save  me  from  getting  frustrated  with  you  for  not listening.
Michael: I can see why that would be frustrating.
COACH: Jack, you and Michael are on your way. Nice job!
JACK: As long as I'm on a roll, I want to bring up with Michael the thing that in some ways is the most difficult, and that's the question of our friendship. I want to make sure that none of this hurts our friendship.
COACH: Check  your  purposes  on  that.  'Making  sure  that none of this hurt our friendship' sounds like you're going to put words in his mouth. It's a little controlling. If you're going to ask a question, make sure it's an open question. Just ask him how he's feeling about your friendship. If the problem did hurt  your  friendship,  you  want  him  to  be open about saying so.
Jack: I'm  glad  we're  working  through  these  issues.  I  think  it's hard  to  work  with  friends.  I  guess  I  wonder  whether  you think this has affected our friendship.
Michael: Well, what's your answer to that question?
Jack: Honestly? Now that we've talked it through I feel much better about things. Before we talked I was pretty angry. And probably a little hurt, too. If we hadn't discussed this at some point, it would have been easy for me to figure we were not going to stay friends.
Michael: I'm surprised by that. You and I certainly react differently to this kind of thing. I was not happy with our working relationship,  but  I  thought  our  friendship  was  fine.  I  view them as separate. But since you obviously think about it differently, I'm glad we talked about it.
JACK: Thanks. I suspect we won't have these sorts of problems in the future.
COACH: I don't know about that. In fact, I think you are better off assuming that you will. Now, though, you know that it's  okay  to  talk  about  them,  so  the  misunderstandings may not be as emotionally draining and are less likely to threaten the relationship. But is this the last difficult conversation you'll have with Michael? I doubt it.
As the saying goes, 'Life is just one damn thing after another.' It is, of course. And now you have some skills to handle it.

## A Difficult Conversations Checklist (p255)


## Step 1: Prepare by Walking Through the Three Conversations (p255)


## 1. Sort out What Happened . (p255)

Where does your  story  come  from  (information,  past  experiences, rules)? Theirs?
What impact has this situation had on you? What might their intentions have been?
What have you each contributed to the problem?
Explore your emotional footprint, and the bundle of emotions you experience.
What's at stake for you about you ? What do you need to accept to be better grounded?

## Step 2: Check Your Purposes and Decide Whether to Raise the Issue (p255)

Purposes: What do you hope to accomplish by having this conversation? Shift your stance to support learning, sharing, and problem-solving.
Deciding: Is this the best way to address the issue and achieve your  purposes?  Is  the  issue  really  embedded  in  your  Identity Conversation? Can you affect the problem by changing your contributions?  If  you  don't  raise  it,  what  can  you  do  to  help yourself let go?

## Step 3: Start from the Third Story (p255)

Describe the problem as the difference between your stories. Include both viewpoints as a legitimate part of the discussion.
Invite them to join you as a partner in sorting out the situation together.

## Step 4: Explore Their Story and Yours (p256)

Listen to understand their perspective on what happened. Ask questions. Acknowledge the feelings behind the arguments and accusations. Paraphrase to see if you've got it. Try to unravel how the two of you got to this place.
Share your own viewpoint , your past experiences, intentions, feelings.
Reframe,  reframe,  reframe to  keep  on  track.  From  truth  to perceptions,  blame  to  contribution,  accusations  to  feelings, and so on.

## Step 5: Problem-Solving (p256)

Invent options that meet each side's most important concerns and interests.
Look to standards for what should happen. Keep in mind the standard of mutual caretaking; relationships that always go one way rarely last.
Talk about how to keep communication open as you go forward.

## A Road Map to Difficult Conversations (p257)


## A Note on Some Relevant Organizations (p271)


## The Harvard Negotiation Project (p271)

The Harvard Negotiation Project (HNP) is a research project founded in 1981 at Harvard University to develop and disseminate improved methods of dealing with conflict. It is part of the Program on Negotiation at Harvard Law School, an inter-university consortium of scholars and activities with a multidisciplinary approach to the theory and practice of negotiation and conflict resolution. HNP's activities include action research, theory building, education and training, and writing.
Action Research. HNP works with people involved in real-world problems to offer help, learn from experience, and develop new theory. For example, the Project has contributed to the resolution of conflicts such as the U.S.-Iranian hostage conflict in 1980, helped to create a substantially improved relationship between the U.S. and Soviet Union, and helped to structure negotiation and peacemaking processes in Central America and South Africa.
Theory-Building. Among the ideas developed at HNP are the one-text mediation procedure used by the United States in Middle East peace negotiations since the 1978 Camp David summit, the method of 'principled' or 'mutual-gains' negotiation, and the approach to productive conversation summarized in this book.
Education and Training. HNP developed the seminal Negotiation Workshop taught at Harvard Law School that has influenced educators around the world. In June and November each year the Project offers intensive one-week courses on negotiation and difficult conversations to lawyers and the general public as part of Harvard Law School's Program of Instruction for  Lawyers.  (For  information,  contact  PIL  at  (617)  495-3187  or  on  the  web  at www.law. harvard.edu/Programs/PIL/ .)
Publications. Work at the Project has spawned many publications, including International Mediation: A Working Guide, Getting to YES: Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In, Getting Together: Building Relationships as We Negotiate, Getting Ready to Negotiate, Beyond Machiavelli,  Coping  with  International  Conflict,  Getting  It  Done:  How  to  Lead  When  You're  Not  in Charge, and this book, as well as articles, teacher's guides, curricula, and negotiation exercises. (For information on teaching materials, contact the Program on Negotiation Clearinghouse at (617) 495-1684 or by email at chouse@pon.law.harvard.edu . For the latest ideas in the field, subscribe to the Program's Negotiation Journal , available at the same number.)

## Conflict Management Group (p272)

Conflict Management Group (CMG) is a non-profit organization devoted to helping people manage their differences constructively. CMG provides training, advice, and facilitation for public and private sector groups to promote peace and collaborative problem-solving around the world in three areas of focus:
Strategic Assistance: Unofficial initiatives to help parties find new avenues for managing protracted problems of social concern. CMG has helped leaders in the former Soviet Union manage ethnic conflicts, trained official  negotiation  teams in South Africa and El Salvador, and helped Ecuador and Peru resolve a border conflict. Capacity Building: Strengthening the ability of organizations and communities to manage conflict and solve problems collaboratively. CMG is working with the Organization of African Unity, assisting Greek and Turkish Cypriots, and helping communities in the United States curb youth violence and ease racial tensions. Theory-Practice Interchange: CMG works to make theory useful to practitioners and to harvest useful concepts from practice. CMG was founded by members of the Harvard Negotiation Project. (For further information, contact CMG at (617) 354-5444 or visit www.cmgroup.org .)

## Vantage Partners, LLC (p272)

Vantage Partners LLC is an international consulting firm based in Cambridge, Massachusetts that enables organizations to improve the way they negotiate, build, and manage relationships across internal divisions and with their external partners, customers, and suppliers. Founded by current and former members of the Harvard Negotiation Project, Vantage Partners assists its clients to build the behavioral skills, tools, processes, formal structures, and cultural mindset required to strengthen relationships, improve negotiation results, and sustain innovation and competitive advantage. Vantage's  services  include  supporting  the  negotiation  and  management  of  alliance  relationships, building the capacity to manage and learn from internal conflict (within executive teams, between functions, or across the matrix), and improving organizational 'return on negotiation' with customers and suppliers. Vantage also offers custom-designed training and products designed to build critical skills including: negotiation, building and managing relationships, managing conflict, and engaging effectively in difficult conversations. (For further information, contact Vantage Partners LLC at (617) 354-6090 or on the web at www.vantagepartners.com .)

## Triad Consulting Group, Inc. (p272)

Triad Consulting is dedicated to helping organizations, businesses, and communities engage in their  toughest  conflicts  with  clarity,  integrity,  and  heart - in  ways  that  deepen  relationships and promote effective problem-solving. Consultants specialize in addressing disputes where important values are at stake and emotions run high. Triad works at the individual, team, and organizational levels, offering strategic negotiation advice, mediation services, custom-designed skills  training,  and  excutive  coaching.  Triad  consultants  have  worked  with  a  wide  range  of groups and organizations, including Ford Motor Company, The Citadel, Akamai Technologies, the Singapore Supreme Court, Technology Partners International (TPI), and the Boston Area Rape Crisis Center. Triad was founded by members of the Harvard Negotiation Project and Conflict Management Group. (For further information, contact Triad at (617) 547-1728 or visit us on the web at www.triadcgi.com ). . . .
For general information and up-to-date news about Difficult Conversations , see our web page at www.difficultconversations.com or  the  publisher's  web  page  at www.penguinputnam.com/ difficultconversations/ .