
## Introduction (p10)


## Great	Managers	Are	Made,	Not	Born (p10)

I remember	the	meeting when	my	manager	asked	me	to	become	a	manager. It	was	unexpected,	like	going	for	your	daily	run	and	tripping	over	a	pirate chest. Oh ,	I	thought, how	intriguing . We	were	sitting	in	a	ten-person	conference	room,	kitty-corner	from	each other.	'Our	team	is	growing,'	my	manager	explained.	'We	need	another manager,	and	you	get	along	with	everyone.	What	do	you	think?' I	was	twenty-five,	working	at	a	start-up.	All	that	I	knew	of	management	could be	neatly	summarized	into	two	words: meetings and PROMOTION. I	mean,	this was	a	promotion,	wasn't	it?	Everyone	knows	this	conversation	is	the	equivalent of	Harry	Potter	getting	a	visit	from	Hagrid	on	a	dark	and	stormy	night,	the	first step	in	an	adventurous	and	fulfilling	career.	I	wasn't	about	to	turn	down	that	kind of	invitation. So	I	said	yes. It	was	only	later,	walking	out	of	the	room,	that	I	thought	about	the	details	of what	she	had	said. I	got	along	with	everyone .	Surely	there	was	more	to management	than	that.	How	much	more?	I	was	about	to	find	out.
I	remember	my	first	meeting	with	a	direct	report. I	arrived	five	minutes	past	our	scheduled	time,	in	a	rush	and	flustered	by	my lateness. This	is	a	terrible	start ,	I	thought	to	myself.	I	could	see	him	through	the windowed	door	of	the	conference	room-the	same	one	I	had	met	my	manager	in previously-eyes	glued	to	his	phone.	Just	a	day	earlier,	we	had	both	been designers	on	the	same	team,	sitting	in	our	adjacent	pods,	working	on	our respective	projects	while	lobbing	rapid-fire	design	feedback	across	the	aisle. Then	the	announcement	was	made,	and	now	I	was	his	manager. I'm	not	nervous ,	I	told	myself. We're	going	to	have	a	great	conversation. About	what,	I	wasn't	entirely	sure.	I	just	wanted	this	meeting	to	feel	normal,	like it	had	yesterday	and	the	day	before	that.	If	he	didn't love the	fact	that	I	was	his manager,	then	at	the	very	least	I	wanted	him	to	be	cool	with	it.
I'm	not	nervous . I	walked	in.	He	glanced	up	from	his	phone,	and	I'll	never	forget	the expression	on	his	face.	It	had	all	the	surliness	of	a	teenager	forced	to	attend	his ten-year-old	cousin's	Pokémon-themed	birthday	party. 'Hi,'	I	said,	trying	to	keep	my	voice	level.	'So,	uh,	what	are	you	working	on right	now?' His	scowl	only	deepened,	settling	in	like	a	bear	for	the	winter.	I	could	feel	the sweat	starting	to	form	on	my	face,	the	hot	rush	of	blood	pounding	in	my	ears. I	wasn't	a	better	designer	than	this	guy.	I	wasn't	smarter	or	more	experienced. The	look	on	his	face	alone	was	enough	to	dispel	me	of	any	notion	that	he'd	'be cool'	with	the	fact	that	I	was	his	manager.	The	message	was	as	clear	as	if	it	had been	written	in	giant	black	Sharpie: You	have	no	idea	what	you're	doing.
At	that	moment,	I	felt	he	was	absolutely	right.
By	all	accounts,	the	path	that	led	me	to	managing	Facebook's	design	team	was an	unlikely	one.	I	grew	up	in	the	dense	streets	of	Shanghai	and	then	the	humid suburbs	of	Houston,	an	immigrant	clueless	about	the	significance	of Star	Wars , Michael	Jackson,	and E.T .	Growing	up,	I'd	heard	the	term Silicon	Valley a	few times	but	took	it	literally.	I	imagined	that	nestled	between	two	mountain	ranges were	neat	little	rows	of	factories	printing	silicon	chips	like	Hershey	bars.	If	you had	asked	me	what	designers	do,	I	would	have	said,	'Make	nice	clothing.' I	did	know	two	things,	though,	even	early	on,	and	those	were	how	much	I loved	drawing	and	building.	There	is	a	photo	of	me	at	eight	years	old	on Christmas	morning,	a	huge	grin	stretched	across	my	face	as	I	held	up	the	present I'd	been	begging	for	all	year:	a	new	set	of	pirate	LEGOS-complete	with	a monkey	and	a	shark! In	middle	school,	my	best	friend	Marie	and	I	passed	each	other	notebooks filled	with	elaborate	doodles	between	classes.	In	high	school,	we	discovered	the magic	of	HTML,	which	let	us	combine	our	hobbies	of	drawing	and	building	into the	perfect	pastime:	making	websites	showcasing	our	illustrations.	I	could	think of	no	better	way	to	spend	spring	break	than	obsessively	following	the	latest online	Photoshop	tutorials	('How	to	Achieve	Realistic	Skin	Tones')	or redesigning	my	website	to	show	off	a	new	JavaScript	trick	(links	that	glowed when	you	moused	over	them).
When	I	arrived	at	Stanford,	I	knew	I	wanted	to	study	computer	science.	So	I took	classes	on	algorithms	and	databases	in	preparation	for	a	job	at	seasoned, polished	Microsoft	or	quirky,	up-and-coming	Google,	where	many	former classmates	had	gone.	But	by	sophomore	year,	a	new	craze	was	sweeping	through Stanford.	'Imagine!'	we	chattered	excitedly	in	hallways	and	over	meals.	'A	site where	you	check	out	photos	of	that	crush	from	organic	chemistry,	or	get	to	know your	dorm	mates'	favorite	bands,	or	leave	cryptic	messages	on	your	friends' 'Walls'!' I	was	hooked.	Facebook	was	unlike	anything	I	had	used	before.	It	felt	like	a living	thing,	a	dynamic	version	of	our	college	selves	that	extended	into	the online	world	and	helped	us	get	to	know	each	other	in	new	ways. I'd	heard	Facebook	was	founded	by	some	Harvard	dropouts,	but	I	didn't know	much	about	start-ups	until	I	took	a	class	my	senior	year	about	Silicon Valley	entrepreneurship.	And	then	I	understood:	Oh,	this	was	the	land	of	hungry, foolish	dreamers	who	were	given	the	chance	to	build	their	version	of	the	future with	a	little	help	from	venture	capitalist	fairy	godparents.	This	was	the	land	of innovations	borne	from	a	mix	of	smart	minds,	iron	resolve,	lucky	timing,	and	a whole	lot	of	duct	tape. If	I	was	going	to	do	this	start-up	thing	at	any	point	in	my	life,	why	not	now, when	I	was	young	with	nothing	to	lose?	And	why	not	with	a	product	that	I	used every	day	and	loved?	A	good	friend	of	mine,	Wayne	Chang,	had	joined Facebook	six	months	earlier,	and	he	couldn't	stop	talking	it	up.	'Just	come	check it	out,'	he	cajoled.	'At	least	do	an	internship	and	see	what	the	company	is	like.' I	took	his	advice	and	interviewed.	Soon,	I	found	myself	in	the	graffitied	lobby on	my	first	day	as	Facebook's	first-ever	engineering	intern.	The	entire	company at	the	time	could	fit	into	a	backyard	party.	News	Feed	was	not	yet	a	concept,	and nobody	knew	our	service	except	high	school	and	college	students.	In	the	world of	social	networking,	we	were	dwarfed	by	the	juggernaut	MySpace,	with	its	150 million	users. And	yet,	as	small	as	we	were,	our	dreams	were	enormous.	We	cranked	out code	into	the	late	hours	of	the	night	while	Daft	Punk	blared	from	the	speakers. One	day ,	we	told	ourselves, we'll	be	bigger	than	MySpace -and	then,	laughing	a little	because	it	sounded	so	ludicrouswe'll	eventually	connect	the	world . Two	months	into	my	internship,	I	decided	to	stay	full	time.	And	because	I knew	Photoshop	from	my	drawing	days,	my	friend	Ruchi	Sanghvi	suggested	that I	sit	with	the	designers	and	get	involved	in	deciding	what	to	put	on	the	screen. Huh.	Designing	websites	is	a	real	profession? I	thought. Count	me	in!
Because	we	were	a	start-up,	nobody	thought	it	was	weird	that	I	was	suddenly showing	my	own	design	proposals	for	new	features.	We	were	all	wearing	many hats	then,	tackling	problems	as	we	saw	them,	diving	in	and	out	of	code	and pixels	and	back	to	code	again.	And	so,	rather	by	accident	than	by	any	masterful plan,	I	added	a	new	hat	to	my	rotation: designer . Three	years	later,	after	that	fateful	conversation	with	my	manager,	my	role shifted	again.	Our	design	team	had	almost	doubled	in	size	since	I'd	started. Having	made	it	through	my	first	few	years	at	a	hyper-growth	start-up,	I	thought	I was	used	to	change.	I	was	no	stranger	to	dealing	with	the	firsts	or	rolling	with the	punches. Still,	I	was	unprepared	for	just	how	much	the	new	manager	role	would	stretch me.	For	one	thing,	I	was	managing	product	designers,	a	discipline	I	didn't	even know	existed	before	I	arrived	at	the	company.	For	another,	the	responsibilities	of managing	people	and	the	way	they	worked	together	felt	like	an	enormous	leap from	creating	user	interfaces	or	writing	code.	In	those	early	months	and	years, everything	felt	new	and	uncomfortable. I	remember	my	first	time	interviewing	someone	for	my	team.	Even	though	I was	clearly	the	one	with	the	upper	handI asked	the	questions ,	I decided	how the	conversation	should	flow, I selected hire or no	hire at	the	end	of	the	day-my hands	were	shaking	for	the	entire	forty-five	minutes.	What	if	the	candidate thought	my	questions	were	stupid?	What	if	she	saw	me	for	the	fraud	I	felt	like? What	if	I	accidentally	made	our	team	seem	like	a	clown	show? I	remember	my	first	time	delivering	bad	news.	We	were	kicking	off	an exciting	new	project	that	had	everyone	passionately	discussing	the	possibilities. Two	of	my	reports	asked	me	if	they	could	be	the	lead.	I	had	to	say	no	to someone.	I	practiced	the	conversation	in	front	of	my	bathroom	mirror	at	home, imagining	every	terrible	scenario-was	this	even	the	right	decision?	Was	I	a dream	crusher?	Would	somebody	quit	on	me	right	on	the	spot? I	remember	my	first	time	presenting	in	front	of	a	large	audience.	I	was showcasing	design	work	at	Facebook's	F8	conference	amid	a	sea	of	fuzzy cushions	and	neon	lights.	We'd	never	done	a	public	event	at	that	scale	before,	so it	was	a	big	deal.	In	the	weeks	leading	up	to	the	event,	I	couldn't	stop	fiddling with	every	detail	of	my	presentation.	I	desperately	wanted	it	to	go	well,	but public	speaking	terrified	me.	Even	practicing	my	talk	in	front	of	helpful colleagues	felt	like	a	nerve-racking	ordeal. I	remember	my	three	primary	emotions	navigating	the	choppy	waters	of	my new	role:	fear,	doubt,	and am	I	crazy	for	feeling	this	way? Everyone	else	around me	seemed	to	be	doing	just	fine.	Everyone	else	made	it	look	easy. I	never	thought	managing	was	easy.	I	still	don't. Today,	nearly	ten	years	after	I	started	on	that	path,	my	team	has	grown	by	a few	orders	of	magnitude.	We	design	the	experience	that	more	than	two	billion people	see	when	they	tap	the	blue f icon	on	their	phones.	We	think	through	the details	of	how	people	share	what's	on	their	minds,	keep	up	with	their	friends, interact	through	conversations	and	thumbs-ups,	and	create	communities	together. If	we	do	our	jobs	well,	then	people	all	over	the	world-from	Belgium	to	Kenya, from	India	to	Argentina-will	feel	closer	to	one	another. Good	design	at	its	core	is	about	understanding	people	and	their	needs	in	order to	create	the	best	possible	tools	for	them.	I'm	drawn	to	design	for	a	lot	of	the same	reasons	that	I'm	drawn	to	management-it	feels	like	a	deeply	human endeavor	to	empower	others. I'm	by	no	means	a	management	expert.	I've	learned	largely	by	doing,	and despite	my	best	intentions,	I've	made	countless	mistakes.	But	this	is	how anything	in	life	goes:	You	try	something.	You	figure	out	what	worked	and	what didn't.	You	file	away	lessons	for	the	future.	And	then	you	get	better.	Rinse, repeat. I've	had	plenty	of	help,	too,	in	the	form	of	some	amazing	leadership	training courses	(Crucial	Conversations	is	my	favorite),	articles	and	books	that	I	turn	to again	and	again	(like High	Output	Management and How	to	Win	Friends	and Influence	People ),	and,	most	important	of	all,	my	colleagues.	They	have generously	shared	their	wisdom	with	me	and	inspired	me	to	strive	for	better.	I feel	lucky	to	have	worked	with	Mark	Zuckerberg,	Sheryl	Sandberg,	and	a	host	of others	past	and	present	who	have	taught	me	so	much. Another	tactic	in	my	self-education	started	about	four	years	ago,	when	I decided	to	write	a	blog.	I	thought	that	the	act	of	sitting	down	every	week	and sorting	through	the	jumble	of	thoughts	ping-ponging	around	my	head	would	help me	make	sense	of	them. I	called	my	blog The	Year	of	the	Looking	Glass because,	like	Alice,	'I	know who	I was when	I	got	up	this	morning,	but	I	think	I	must	have	been	changed several	times	since	then.'	One	day,	far	in	the	future,	I	imagined	looking	back	on my	collection	of	posts	and	recalling	my	journey. Here	were	all	the	things	I struggled	with.	Here	are	all	the	ways	I	have	learned. Other	people	began	to	read	my	articles.	They	sent	them	to	their	friends	and colleagues.	Strangers	started	approaching	me	at	events	and	conferences	to discuss	the	things	I	had	written.	They	told	me	how	much	they	appreciated	the
way	I	had	broken	down	the	struggle.	Many	were	new	managers.	Some	were experienced	but	dealing	with	similar	challenges	of	growth	and	scale.	And	others weren't	currently	managers	but	wondered	if	it	was	something	they	wanted	to	do down	the	road. 'You	should	write	a	book,'	some	folks	suggested.	I'd	laugh	it	off.	They couldn't	be	serious!	I	had	so	much	left	to	learn.	Maybe	someday,	in	the	twilight of	my	career,	after	I	had	discovered	the	true	secret	to	great	management,	I	could cozy	up	in	a	plaid	armchair	next	to	a	roaring	fire	and	jot	down	all	the	heaps	of wisdom	I	had	accumulated. I	told	my	friend	this,	and	he	rolled	his	eyes.	'Yeah,	but	at	that	point,	you won't	remember	what	it's	like	at	the	beginning,	when	everything	feels	new	and hard	and	crazy.	You'll	be	so	far	removed.'	He	had	a	point.	There	are	plenty	of management	books	out	there	written	by	top	CEOs	and	leadership	experts. Countless	resources	exist	for	executives	who	want	to	become	even	more effective	through	learning	about	the	latest	organizational	research	or	business trends. But	most	managers	are	not	CEOs	or	senior	executives.	Most	lead	smaller teams,	and	sometimes	not	even	directly.	Most	are	not	featured	in	the	pages	of Forbes or Fortune .	But	they	are	managers	all	the	same,	and	they	share	a common	purpose:	helping	a	group	of	people	achieve	a	common	goal.	These managers	may	be	teachers	or	principals,	captains	or	coaches,	administrators	or planners. When	I	considered	this,	I	thought, Maybe	I	can	write	this	book,	because	it's more	relevant	for	a	certain	group	of	people	now :	new	managers	thrown	into	the deep	end,	overwhelmed	managers	wondering	how	to	best	help	their	reports, managers	dealing	with	fast-growing	teams,	or	those	simply	curious	about management.	I	was	one	of	them	not	so	long	ago. Running	a	team	is	hard	because	it	ultimately	boils	down	to	people,	and	all	of us	are	multifaceted	and	complex	beings.	Just	like	how	there	is	no	one	way	to	go about	being	a	person,	there	is	no	one	way	to	go	about	managing	a	group	of people. And	yet,	working	together	in	teams	is	how	the	world	moves	forward.	We	can create	things	far	grander	and	more	ambitious	than	anything	we	could	have	done alone.	This	is	how	battles	are	won,	how	innovation	moves	forward,	how organizations	succeed.	This	is	how	any	remarkable	achievement	happens. I	believe	this	as	deeply	as	I	believe	anything:	Great	managers	are	made,	not born.	It	doesn't	matter	who	you	are.	If	you	care	enough	to	be	reading	this,	then you	care	enough	to	be	a	great	manager. Dear	reader,	I	hope	that	this	book	gives	you	useful	tips	for	your	day-to-day. But	more	importantly,	I	hope	this	book	helps	you	understand	the whys of management,	because	only	when	you've	bought	into	the whys can	you	truly	be effective	in	the hows .	Why	do	managers	even	exist?	Why	should	you	have	oneon-one	meetings	with	your	reports?	Why	should	you	hire	Candidate	A	over Candidate	B?	Why	do	so	many	managers	make	the	same	mistakes? Some	of	the	stories	and	perspectives	I	describe	may	be	unique	to	the environment	I	work	in,	which	is	a	tech	start-up	that	became	a	Fortune	500 company.	Maybe	you	will	only	need	to	hire	someone	new	once	in	a	blue	moon. Maybe	meetings	won't	be	a	big	part	of	your	day.	Still,	much	of	the	daily	work	of managers-giving	feedback,	creating	a	healthy	culture,	planning	for	the	futureis	universal. Finally,	I	hope	that	this	book	can	be	a	resource	on	your	shelf,	the	kind	of thing	you	can	read	in	any	order,	flip	back	to	at	any	time,	and	reread	when	you suddenly	see	a	part	of	your	role	in	a	new	light. Though	I'm	a	designer,	this	is	not	a	book	about	how	to	build	products.	You won't	find	deep	reflections	on	what	makes	for	great	design	or	what	I	think	of social	media.	I	won't	sit	here	and	tell	you	the	story	of	Facebook. This	is	a	book	about	how	someone	with	no	formal	training	learned	to	become a	confident	manager.	This	is	the	book	I	wish	I	had	in	my	first	few	years,	with	all my	fears	and	doubts	and	am-I-crazies. This	is	the	book	that's	here	to	tell	you	that	your	fears	and	doubts	are	normal, and,	like	me,	you're	going	to	figure	it	out. Ready?	Let's	get	started.

## Chapter	One (p19)


## What	Is	Management? (p19)

I n	May	of	2006, when	I	first	started	my	job,	I	didn't	know	what	I	didn't	know. On	the	one	hand,	given	that	Facebook	was	a	social	network	for	college	and high	school	students	at	the	time,	I	thought	that	in	some	ways	I	was	the	perfect candidate.	I	mean,	who	knew	Facebook's	audience	better	than	a	recent	grad	like myself?	I	was	hungry	to	make	my	mark	on	the	world,	and	there	was	nothing	to weigh	me	down.	I	had	no	institutionalized	doctrines,	no	tragic	failures	to	speak of.	And	after	four	years	of	cramming	for	exams,	writing	countless	papers,	and pulling	all-nighter	coding	marathons,	hard	work	and	I	got	along	just	fine. But	I	faced	some	major	disadvantages	as	well,	the	biggest	being	that	I	had very	little	experience	under	my	belt.	Like	in	most	start-ups,	our	team	was focused	primarily	on	getting	things	done,	not	on	organizational	hierarchy.	I didn't	have	a	formal	manager	until	about	a	year	in,	when	one	of	the	senior designers	on	our	team,	Rebekah,	took	on	that	role.	Before	that,	we	were operating	as	a	loose	collective,	everyone	just	helping	out	where	they	were needed.	Two	years	later,	suddenly I was	a	manager. I	had	a	lot	to	learn.	But	when	I	look	back	now,	what	surprises	me	the	most	is how	little	I	understood	of	what management was	all	about. Oh,	we're	all	familiar	with	good	and	bad	managers,	from	James	Bond's	M	to A	Christmas	Carol 's	Ebenezer	Scrooge,	from	Katharine	Graham	in The	Post to Miranda	Priestly	in The	Devil	Wears	Prada .	It's	not	as	if	managers	are	some	sort of	rare,	exotic	species.	Most	people	have	one.	At	the	dinner	table	growing	up,	I remember	my	parents-an	IT	specialist	and	a	stockbroker-talking	about	what their	bosses	did	or	said	that	day.	I	had	managers	who'd	shown	me	the	ropes during	my	high	school	and	college	teaching	jobs. But	if	you	had	asked	me	what	I	thought	a	manager's	job	was	before	I	started, here's	what	I	would	have	said.
have	meetings	with	reports	to	help	them	solve	their	problems,
share	feedback	about	what	is	or	isn't	going	well,	and
figure	out	who	should	be	promoted	and	who	should	be	fired.
Fast-forward	three	years.	Having	done	the	job	now,	I'm	a	bit	wiser.	My revised	answer	would	look	like	the	following.
support	members	in	reaching	their	career	goals,	and
create	processes	to	get	work	done	smoothly	and	efficiently.
As	you	can	see,	my	answers	evolved	from	basic,	day-to-day	activities	(having meetings	and	giving	feedback)	to	longer-term	goals	(building	teams	and supporting	career	growth).	The	new	answers	sound	smarter	and	more	grown-up. Go,	me! Except	.	.	.	they're	still	not	quite	right.	You	might	be	thinking, Well,	what's wrong	with	these	answers? Great	managers	certainly	do	all	the	things	on	both lists. True,	but	the	problem	is	that	these	answers	are	still	an	assortment	of activities.	If	I	asked	you,	'What	is	the	job	of	a	soccer	player?'	would	you	say that	it's	to	attend	practices,	pass	the	ball	to	their	teammates,	and	attempt	to	score goals? No,	of	course	not.	You'd	tell	me	why	those	activities	matter	in	the	first	place. You'd	say,	'The	job	of	a	soccer	player	is	to	win	games.' So	what	is	the	job	of	a	manager?	Without	understanding	this	deeply,	it's	hard to	know	how	to	be	good	at	it. That's	what	this	first	chapter	is	about.

## THE	ONE-LINE	DEFINITION	OF	A	MANAGER'S	JOB (p22)

Imagine	that	you	decide	to	set	up	a	lemonade	stand	because	you	love	lemonade and	think	it	could	be	a	great	business. In	the	beginning,	what	you	need	to	do	seems	pretty	clear.	You	go	to	the	store and	get	yourself	a	knapsack	full	of	lemons.	You	juice	those	lemons,	dump	in	a generous	helping	of	sugar,	and	add	water.	You	get	a	folding	table	and	a	lounge chair,	a	pitcher,	a	cooler,	and	some	cups.	You	decorate	a	lovely	chalk	sign announcing	your	delicious	offering	(and	competitive	pricing!),	and	then,	near	a busy	intersection,	you	set	up	shop	and	cheerfully	ask	if	any	passersby	are	thirsty. It's	simple	when	it's	just	you.	It's	your	hands	that	squeezed	the	lemons,	your feet	that	trudged	from	the	store	to	the	kitchen	to	your	stand,	your	arms	that lugged	the	pitcher	and	cooler.	If	the	chalkboard	handwriting	looks	sloppy,	that's on	you.	If	your	lemonade	is	too	sweet	or	sour,	you	have	only	yourself	to	blame. Nothing	will	get	done	unless	you	choose	to	do	it. But	great	news!	Beyoncé	drops	an	album	and	suddenly	everyone	is	obsessed with	lemonade!	As	soon	as	you	sell	a	glass,	ten	other	people	are	crowded	around your	stand,	eager	for	a	gulp	of	that	refreshing,	nostalgic	beverage.	You	can't keep	up	with	demand,	so	you	decide	to	enlist	the	help	of	your	neighbors	Henry and	Eliza.	You'll	pay	them	each	a	fair	wage,	and	in	exchange,	they'll	come	work for	you. Congrats!	You	are	now	a	manager! 'Duh,'	you	say.	'I	hired	them	and	I'm	paying	them	money.	I'm	the	CEO,	the head	honcho,	the	boss.	Of	course	I'm	a	manager.' Actually,	you'd	be	a	manager	even	if	you	didn't	hire	them	or	pay	them.	The management	aspect	has	nothing	to	do	with	employment	status	and	everything	to do	with	the	fact	that you	are	no	longer	trying	to	get	something	done	by	yourself . With	three	pairs	of	hands	and	feet,	you	can	make	and	sell	lemonade	so	much faster.	One	of	you	can	mix	the	drink	while	another	collects	payment.	You	can rotate	shifts	and	keep	the	stand	open	for	more	hours.	You	might	even	have	time to	shop	around	for	cheaper	ingredients. At	the	same	time,	you're	giving	up	some	level	of	control.	You	won't	get	to make	every	decision	anymore.	When	things	go	badly,	it	might	not	be	because	of anything you did.	If	Eliza	forgets	to	add	the	sugar,	you'll	get	a	lot	of	puckered, unhappy	customers.	If	Henry's	scowl	intimidates	others,	you'll	get	fewer	people stopping	for	a	drink. You	felt	the	trade-offs	were	worth	it.	Why?	Because	your	goal	is	the	same	as when	you	started:	You	love	lemonade	and	think	it	could	be	a	great	business.	You believe	more	people	should	experience	the	wonders	of	your	favorite	drink,	and with	Eliza	and	Henry	on	board,	you	feel	you're	more	likely	to	succeed. This	is	the	crux	of	management:	It	is	the	belief	that	a	team	of	people	can achieve	more	than	a	single	person	going	it	alone.	It	is	the	realization	that	you don't	have	to	do	everything	yourself,	be	the	best	at	everything	yourself,	or	even know how to	do	everything	yourself.
Your	job,	as	a	manager,	is	to get	better	outcomes	from	a	group	of	people working	together .
It's	from	this	simple	definition	that	everything	else	flows.

## HOW	DO	YOU	TELL	A	GREAT	MANAGER	FROM	AN AVERAGE	MANAGER? (p24)

I	used	to	think	judging	whether	a	manager	was	great	was	like	judging	whether	a fifteen-year-old	was	qualified	to	drive.	There	would	be	a	series	of	tests,	and	each successful	demonstration	would	earn	a	satisfying check .	Are	they	well	regarded by	other	people?	Can	they	solve	big,	strategic	problems?	Do	they	give	killer presentations?	Can	they	knock	out	twenty	important	tasks	in	a	day?	Reply	to emails	while	waiting	in	line	for	coffee?	Defuse	a	tense	situation?	Always	be closing?	Etc.,	etc. These	are	all	wonderful	qualities	to	have	in	a	manager,	to	be	sure,	and	we'll discuss	many	of	them	later	on,	but	the	litmus	test	of	whether	or	not	a	manager	is excelling	doesn't	need	to	be	so	complex. If	the	job	is	defined	as	getting	better	outcomes	from	a	group	of	people working	together,	then	a	great	manager's	team	will	consistently	achieve	great outcomes. If	the	outcome	you	care	about	is	building	a	thriving	lemonade	business,	then a	great	manager's	team	will	turn	a	higher	profit	than	a	mediocre	manager's	team. A	bad	manager's	team	loses	money. If	the	outcome	you	care	about	is	educating	children,	then	a	great	manager's team	will	better	prepare	students	for	the	future	than	an	average	manager's	team. A	bad	manager's	team	fails	to	give	kids	the	skills	and	knowledge	they	need	to thrive. If	the	outcome	you	care	about	is	getting	amazing	design,	then	a	great manager's	team	will	consistently	deliver	concepts	that	wow.	A	mediocre manager's	team	will	produce	work	that	gets	the	job	done	but	doesn't	stand	out.	A bad	manager's	team	will	regularly	suggest	proposals	that	make	you	think, Surely we	can	do	better	than	this. Andy	Grove,	founder	and	CEO	of	Intel	and	a	legendary	manager	of	his	time, wrote	that	when	it	comes	to	evaluations,	one	should	look	at	'the output of	the work	unit	and	not	simply	the activity involved.	Obviously,	you	measure	a salesman	by	the	orders	he	gets	(output),	not	by	the	calls	he	makes	(activity).'
You	can	be	the	smartest,	most	well-liked,	most	hardworking	manager	in	the world,	but	if	your	team	has	a	long-standing	reputation	for	mediocre	outcomes, then	unfortunately	you	can't	objectively	be	considered	a	'great'	manager. That	said,	at	any	given	point	in	time,	it	can	be	hard	to	accurately	judge.	A great	manager	might	be	asked	to	lead	a	new	team,	and	because	it	takes	her	time to	ramp	up,	her	results	might	be	unimpressive	at	the	beginning.	On	the	flip	side, a	bad	manager	might	achieve	a	few	quarters	of	amazing	results	because	she inherited	a	talented	team	or	set	high-pressure	ultimatums	that	had	people	burning the	midnight	oil. Time,	however,	always	reveals	the	truth.	The	best	employees	don't	tend	to stick	around	for	years	and	years	under	a	boss	who	treats	them	poorly	or	whom they	don't	respect.	And	talented	managers	can	typically	turn	around	poorperforming	teams	if	they	are	empowered	to	make	changes. Six	years	ago,	I	switched	my	reporting	to	a	different	manager,	Chris	Cox, Facebook's	chief	product	officer.	One	of	the	earliest	conversations	I	remember us	having	is	when	I	asked	him	how	he	evaluates	the	job	of	a	manager.	He	smiled and	said,	'My	framework	is	quite	simple.'	Half	of	what	he	looked	at	was	my team's	results-did	we	achieve	our	aspirations	in	creating	valuable,	easy-to-use, and	well-crafted	design	work?	The	other	half	was	based	on	the	strength	and satisfaction	of	my	team-did	I	do	a	good	job	hiring	and	developing	individuals, and	was	my	team	happy	and	working	well	together? The	first	criterion	looks	at	our	team's	present	outcomes;	the	second	criterion asks	whether	we're	set	up	for	great	outcomes	in	the	future. I've	gone	on	to	adopt	this	framework	for	assessing	managers	on	my	own team.	Being	awesome	at	the	job	means	playing	the	long	game	and	building	a reputation	for	excellence.	Through	thick	or	thin,	in	spite	of	the	hundreds	of things	calling	for	your	attention	every	day,	never	forget	what	you're	ultimately here	to	do:	help	your	team	achieve	great	outcomes.

## THE	THREE	THINGS	MANAGERS	THINK	ABOUT	ALL	DAY (p25)

So	how	does	a	manager	help	a	group	of	people	achieve	great	outcomes? When	I	was	first	starting	out,	my	mind	would	have	gone	straight	to	the
everyday	duties-preparing	for	that	next	meeting,	removing	a	roadblock	for	a report,	coming	up	with	an	execution	plan	for	the	next	month. J.	Richard	Hackman,	the	leading	scholar	of	teams,	spent	forty	years	trying	to answer	this	question.	He	studied	the	ways	professionals	work	together	in
hospitals,	in	symphony	orchestras,	and	inside	the	cockpits	of	commercial airliners.	One	of	his	conclusions	is	that	making	a	team	function	well	is	harder than	it	looks.	'Research	consistently	shows	that	teams	underperform,	despite	all the	extra	resources	they	have,'	he	says.	'That's	because	problems	with coordination	and	motivation	typically	chip	away	at	the	benefits	of collaboration.' Hackman's	research	describes	five	conditions	that	increase	a	team's	odds	of success:	having	a	real	team	(one	with	clear	boundaries	and	stable	membership), a	compelling	direction,	an	enabling	structure,	a	supportive	organizational context,	and	expert	coaching. My	own	observations	are	similar,	and	I've	come	to	think	of	the	multitude	of tasks	that	fill	up	a	manager's	day	as	sorting	neatly	into	three	buckets: purpose , people ,	and process . The purpose is	the	outcome	your	team	is	trying	to	accomplish,	otherwise known	as	the why .	Why	do	you	wake	up	and	choose	to	do this thing	instead	of the	thousands	of	other	things	you	could	be	doing?	Why	pour	your	time	and energy	into	this	particular	goal	with	this	particular	group	of	people?	What	would be	different	about	the	world	if	your	team	were	wildly	successful?	Everyone	on the	team	should	have	a	similar	picture	of why	does	our	work	matter? If	this purpose	is	missing	or	unclear,	then	you	may	experience	conflicts	or	mismatched expectations. For	example,	let's	say	your	vision	is	to	get	a	lemonade	stand	on	every	block, starting	first	in	your	city	and	then	expanding	throughout	the	country.	However, your	employee	Henry	is	under	the	impression	that	your	stand	ought	to	be	a popular	hangout	spot	for	the	neighbors.	He'll	start	doing	things	that	you	think are	unimportant	or	wasteful,	like	buying	a	bunch	of	lawn	chairs	or	trying	to serve	pizza	along	with	lemonade.	To	prevent	these	misalignments,	you'll	need	to get	him	and	the	other	members	of	your	team	on	board	with	what	you	truly	care about. At	the	same	time,	you	can't	simply demand that	everyone	believe	in	your vision.	If	Henry	thinks	your	grand	plan	of	'a	lemonade	stand	on	every	block'	is stupid,	he	won't	be	motivated	to	help	you	see	it	through.	He	might	decide instead	to	join	a	venture	he	cares	more	about,	like	that	pizza-and-pool	parlor down	the	street. The	first	big	part	of	your	job	as	a	manager	is	to	ensure	that your	team	knows what	success	looks	like	and	cares	about	achieving	it. Getting	everyone	to understand	and	believe	in	your	team's	purpose,	whether	it's	as	specific	as	'make every	customer	who	calls	feel	cared	for'	or	as	broad	as	'bring	the	world	closer together,'	requires	understanding	and	believing	in	it	yourself,	and	then	sharing	it at	every	opportunity-from	writing	emails	to	setting	goals,	from	checking	in with	a	single	report	to	hosting	large-scale	meetings. The	next	important	bucket	that	managers	think	about	is people ,	otherwise known	as	the who. Are	the	members	of	your	team	set	up	to	succeed?	Do	they have	the	right	skills?	Are	they	motivated	to	do	great	work? If	you	don't	have	the	right	people	for	the	job,	or	you	don't	have	an environment	where	they	can	thrive,	then	you're	going	to	have	problems.	For example,	say	Eliza	doesn't	precisely	measure	the	right	amount	of	lemon	juice, sugar,	and	water	for	your	secret	formula,	or	Henry	can't	be	bothered	to	greet customers	politely,	or	you're	terrible	at	planning.	Your	lemonade	stand	will suffer.	To	manage	people	well,	you	must	develop	trusting	relationships	with them,	understand	their	strengths	and	weaknesses	(as	well	as	your	own),	make good	decisions	about	who	should	do	what	(including	hiring	and	firing	when necessary),	and	coach	individuals	to	do	their	best. Finally,	the	last	bucket	is process ,	which	describes how your	team	works together.	You	might	have	a	superbly	talented	team	with	a	very	clear understanding	of	what	the	end	goal	is,	but	if	it's	not	apparent	how	everyone's supposed	to	work	together	or	what	the	team's	values	are,	then	even	simple	tasks can	get	enormously	complicated.	Who	should	do	what	by	when?	What	principles should	govern	decision-making? For	example,	say	it's	Henry's	job	to	pick	up	lemonade	ingredients	from	the store	and	it's	Eliza's	job	to	make	the	lemonade.	How	will	Henry	know	when	he needs	to	make	a	run?	How	will	Eliza	find	the	supplies?	What	should	happen	if lemons	run	out	on	a	particularly	hot	day?	If	there	isn't	a	predictable	plan,	Henry and	Eliza	will	waste	time	coordinating	handoffs	and	dealing	with	the	inevitable mistakes	that	arise. Often,	people	have	an	allergic	reaction	to	the	word process. For	me,	it	used	to conjure	up	the	feeling	of	glacial	progress.	I	imagined	myself	flailing	around	in huge	stacks	of	paperwork,	my	calendar	filled	with	tedious	meetings.	In	a processless	world,	I	imagined	myself	free	to	do	whatever	was	needed	to	make things	happen quickly ,	with	no	red	tape,	no	barriers,	no	overhead. There's	some	truth	to	this.	We've	already	established	that	when	you	are working	by	yourself,	you	get	to	make	all	the	decisions.	You	are	limited	only	by how	fast	you	can	think	and	act.
In	a	team	setting,	it's	impossible	for	a	group	of	people	to	coordinate	what needs	to	get	done	without	spending	time	on	it.	The	larger	the	team,	the	more time	is	needed.	As	talented	as	we	are,	mind	reading	is	not	a	core	human competency.	We	need	to	establish	common	values	within	our	team	for	how	we make	decisions	and	respond	to	problems.	For	managers,	important	processes	to master	include	running	effective	meetings,	future	proofing	against	past	mistakes, planning	for	tomorrow,	and	nurturing	a	healthy	culture. Purpose,	people,	process .	The	why,	the	who,	and	the	how.	A	great	manager constantly	asks	herself	how	she	can	influence	these	levers	to	improve	her	team's outcomes.	As	the	team	grows	in	size,	it	matters	less	and	less	how	good	she	is personally	at	doing	the	work	herself.	What	matters	more	is	how	much	of	a multiplier	effect	she	has	on	her	team.	So	how	does	this	work	in	practice? Suppose	I	can	personally	sell	twenty	cups	of	lemonade	per	hour. Suppose	Henry	and	Eliza	can	each	sell	fifteen	cups	of	lemonade	per	hour. Suppose	we	all	worked	four	hours	a	day.	Because	I'm	the	best	among	us	at selling	lemonade,	it	might	seem	like	a	good	use	of	my	time	to	man	the	stand.	I'd sell	eighty	cups	a	day,	and	Henry	and	Eliza	would	each	sell	sixty	cups.	My contribution	would	be	40	percent	of	our	total	sales! But	what	could	I	do	instead	with	my	time?	Suppose	I	spent	it	teaching	Henry and	Eliza	how	to	become	better	lemonade	salespeople.	( Tell	lemon	jokes! * Portion	out	the	ingredients	ahead	of	time!	Pour	cups	in	bulk! )	If	all	this	training took	me	thirty	hours,	that's	the	equivalent	of	six	hundred	cups	of	lemonade	that	I could	have	sold	instead;	that's	a	lot	to	give	up. And	yet,	if	that	training	helps	Henry	and	Eliza	sell	sixteen	cups	per	hour instead	of	fifteen,	it	would	mean	an	extra	eight	cups	a	day	sold	between	the	two of	them.	It's	a	small	improvement,	but	in	less	than	three	months,	they'll	have made	up	those	six	hundred	cups	I	didn't	sell.	If	they	end	up	working	at	the	stand for	a	whole	year,	my	thirty	hours	spent	on	training	instead	of	personally	selling lemonade	will	mean	over	two	thousand	extra	cups	sold! Training	isn't	the	only	thing	I	can	do.	What	if	I	used	those	thirty	hours	to recruit	my	neighbor	Toby?	He's	so	persuasive	he	could	convince	a	leopard	to buy	spots.*	Suppose	my	'lemonade	stand	on	every	block'	vision	inspires	him	to join	the	team.	He	ends	up	selling	thirty	cups	of	lemonade	an	hour,	putting	all	our skills	to	shame.	In	a	year,	that	means	our	stand	will	see	an	additional	21,000-plus cups	sold! If	I	spend	all	my	time	personally	selling	lemonade,	then	I'm	contributing	an additive amount	to	my	business,	not	a	multiplicative	one.	My	performance	as	a manager	would	be	considered	poor	because	I'm	actually	operating	as	an individual	contributor. When	I	decided	to	train	Henry	and	Eliza,	my	efforts	resulted	in	slightly	more lemonade	output,	so	I	had	a	small	multiplier	effect.	I'm	on	the	right	track,	but	it's nothing	to	write	home	about.	When	I	hired	Toby,	it	resulted	in	a	much	bigger multiplier	effect. Of	course,	the	example	above	is	very	simple.	In	real	life,	it's	not	so	easy	to quantify	what	you	might	get	out	of	doing	one	thing	versus	another,	and	we'll	talk more	about	best	practices	for	prioritizing	your	time	in	later	chapters.	But	no matter	what	you	choose,	the	principles	of	success	remain	the	same. Your	role	as	a	manager	is	not	to	do	the	work	yourself,	even	if	you	are	the	best at	it,	because	that	will	only	take	you	so	far.	Your	role	is	to	improve	the	purpose, people,	and	process	of	your	team	to	get	as	high	a	multiplier	effect	on	your collective	outcome	as	you	can.

## MANAGING	IN	SURVIVAL	MODE (p29)

Investing	in	purpose,	people,	and	process	takes	time	and	energy.	In	the	lemonade stand	example,	I	had	to	give	up	selling	a	few	cups	today	because	I	believed	that training	or	recruiting	would	set	up	our	team	to	sell	more	lemonade	down	the road.	Is	that	always	the	right	decision?	No,	certainly	not.	Context	always matters. What	if	I	had	borrowed	money	to	start	my	lemonade	stand,	and	I	needed	to pay	it	back	within	two	weeks	or	risk	having	to	pay	ten	times	the	interest	I	owe? In	that	case,	it's	far	more	important	for	me	to	sell	as	much	lemonade	as	I	can myself	so	that	my	debt	doesn't	spiral	out	of	control.	There's	not	much	use	in planning	months	or	years	ahead	if	my	lemonade	stand	is	on	the	brink	of	going out	of	business. Traditionally,	most	advice	you	hear	about	management	assumes	a	longer	time frame	where	if	you	spend	a	little	today,	you'll	reap	bountiful	rewards	in	time. But	that's	only	true	if	your	organization	isn't	on	fire.	If	it	is,	then	all	bets	are	off. At	that	point,	you	need	to	do	whatever	you	can	to	extinguish	the	flames. In	1943,	psychologist	Abraham	Maslow	proposed	a	famous	theory,	known today	as	Maslow's	hierarchy	of	needs,	to	explain	human	motivation.	The	basic idea	is	that	certain	needs	trump	others	and	you	must	satisfy	lower-level	needs before	focusing	on	higher-level	ones.
If	you	can't	breathe,	for	instance,	it	doesn't	matter	if	you	are	hungry,	lonely, or	unemployed.	At	the	moment	when	your	face	starts	turning	blue,	everything	in your	being	will	focus	on	how	to	fill	your	lungs	with	oxygen.	But	if	you're breathing	fine,	it	doesn't	mean	that	life	is	perfect	either.	You're	simply	now	able to	address	the	next	most	critical	barrier	to	your	survival:	getting	food	into	your stomach. Once	you're	able	to	breathe,	your	stomach	is	full,	and	you're	in	a	safe environment,	then	you	can	focus	on	the	next	levels	up	in	the	hierarchy,	such	as being	part	of	a	community	that	supports	you	or	contributing	something meaningful	with	your	life-what	Maslow	called	'self-actualization.' Given	that	you're	reading	this	book	and	wondering	how	you	can	become	a better	manager,	it's	probably	safe	to	assume	that	your	organization	is	not	on	the verge	of	imminent	collapse.	But	if	it	is,	then	set	this	book	down	right	now	and figure	out	what	you	need	to	do	to	help	your	team	turn	things	around.	Can	you rally	the	troops	for	a	spectacular	gambit?	Can	you	brainstorm	some	MacGyveresque	tactics	to	get	you	out	of	your	tricky	bind?	Can	you	roll	up	your	sleeves	and pitch	in	on	making	cold	calls	or	selling	glasses	of	lemonade? When	you	are	in	survival	mode,	you	do	what	it	takes	to	survive. When	you're	beyond	survival	in	your	team's	hierarchy	of	needs,	then	you	can plan	for	the	future	and	think	about	what	you	can	do	today	that	will	help	you achieve	more	in	the	months	and	years	ahead.

## HOW	DO	YOU	KNOW	IF	YOU'LL	BE	A	GREAT	MANAGER? (p30)

At	this	point,	you	know	that	management	is	the	art	of	getting	a	group	of	people to	work	together	to	achieve	better	outcomes.	How	do	you	know	if	that's	the	right path	for	you? Remember	what	I	said	before:	great	managers	are	made,	not	born.	But	there is	one	caveat,	and	that	caveat	is	this:	you	have	to enjoy the	day-to-day	of management	and want	to	do	it . I	once	had	a	very	talented	designer	on	my	team.	She	was	creative	and thoughtful	and	happened	to	be	the	most	experienced	person	in	an	important product	area.	Everyone	on	her	team	naturally	went	to	her	for	advice	on	big decisions.	I	thought	to	myself, Obviously	she	should	be	a	manager! When	the team	expanded,	I	asked	her	if	she	would	step	up	into	the	role.	She	said	yes,	and	I gave	myself	a	hearty	pat	on	the	back	for	setting	her	up	to	have	even	more impact.
About	a	year	later,	she	quit. I'll	never	forget	what	she	told	me	right	before	she	gave	notice.	She	admitted that	every	morning	as	she	lay	in	bed,	she	dreaded	the	prospect	of	going	to	work and	managing	people.	As	she	said	this,	I	could	see	that	it	was	true.	Her	curious and	thoughtful	spark	had	been	replaced	by	glassy-eyed	exhaustion.	Her	team	had issues	that	needed	sorting	through,	and	she	was	so	burned	out	that	she	couldn't muster	the	motivation.	Her	everyday	responsibilities	were	not	what	she	was passionate	about.	At	her	core,	she	was	a	maker;	she	wanted	long	periods	of uninterrupted	time	to	go	deep	on	a	problem	and	create	something	tangible	with her	hands. I	learned	my	lesson.	Ever	since	then,	when	people	say	they	are	interested	in management,	I	try	to	understand	what	they	find	appealing	about	it	and	whether that	matches	what	would	be	their	actual	day-to-day	job. Perhaps	you	had	a	great	manager	yourself,	and	you're	inspired	to	do	what	she does.	Perhaps	you	love	mentoring	others.	Perhaps	you	want	to	progress	in	your career,	or	make	more	money,	or	call	more	of	the	shots.	Some	of	these	reasons match	well	with	the	realities	of	management.	Some	don't. If	you	are	wondering	whether	you	can	be	a	great	manager,	ask	yourself	these

## three	questions. (p31)


## Do	I	Find	It	More	Motivating	to	Achieve	a	Particular	Outcome	or	to Play	a	Specific	Role? (p31)

As	a	manager,	you	are	judged	on	your	team's	outcomes,	so	your	job	is	to	do whatever	most	helps	them	succeed.	If	your	team	is	lacking	key	skills,	then	you need	to	spend	your	time	training	or	hiring.	If	someone	is	creating	problems	for others,	then	you	need	to	get	him	to	stop.	If	people	don't	know	what	they	should be	doing,	then	you	need	to	construct	a	plan.	A	lot	of	this	work	is	unglamorous. But	because	it's	important,	it	must	be	done,	and	if	nobody	else	does	it,	then	it falls	to	you. This	is	why	adaptability	is	a	key	trait	of	great	managers.	As	your	team changes-whether	it's	goals	shifting,	people	joining	or	leaving,	or	processes evolving-what	you	do	every	day	will	also	change.	If	you're	committed	to	your purpose,	then	you	will	probably	enjoy	(or	at	least	not	mind)	the	variation	that comes	with	the	job.	If,	instead,	there	is	a	specific	activity	that	you	love	too	much to	give	up-whether	it's	seeing	patients,	teaching	students,	writing	code,	or designing	products-then	you	may	find	your	personal	goals	at	odds	with	what the	team	needs	most. This	question	is	more	important	than	any	other	on	the	list,	and	a	strong	yes can	make	up	for	almost	anything,	which	is	why	you	see	leaders	with	vastly different	strengths	and	temperaments	helming	companies.	What	they	have	in common	is	that	their	number	one	priority	is	making	their	team	successful,	and they	are	willing	to	adapt	to	become	the	leaders	that	their	organizations	need.

## Do	I	Like	Talking	with	People? (p32)

You	can't	separate management from team ,	so	there	is	no	getting	around	the	fact that,	as	a	manager,	you	will	have	to	spend	a	lot	of	time	with	other	people.	A major	part	of	your	responsibility	is	ensuring	that	the	individuals	you	support	are able	to	thrive.	This	means	that	listening	to	and	talking	with	them	are	a	core	part of	the	job. If	I	told	you	that	70	percent	of	your	day	would	be	spent	in	meetings,	what's your	immediate	reaction?	That	number	might	be	an	exaggeration,	but	if	your first	thought	is No	problem! then	you're	the	kind	of	person	who	is	likely	to	get energy	from	interacting	with	others. If,	on	the	other	hand,	your	first	thought	is Wow,	that	sounds	awful ,	then	you'll probably	find	the	day-to-day	of	management	challenging.	You	don't	have	to	be an	extrovert-I'm	not,	and	plenty	of	other	managers,	from	Steven	Spielberg	to Eleanor	Roosevelt,	aren't	either-but	the	role	isn't	likely	to	suit	you	if	what	you aspire	for	in	a	workday	is	long,	uninterrupted	blocks	of	quiet	focus.

## Can	I	Provide	Stability	for	an	Emotionally	Challenging	Situation? (p32)

Because	management	is	all	about	people,	and	each	person	brings	his	or	her	own unique	experiences,	motivations,	hopes,	fears,	and	quirks	to	the	table,	managers face	their	fair	share	of	hard	conversations.	You	may	need	to	tell	someone	that she	isn't	meeting	the	expectations	of	her	role.	Even	worse,	you	may	have	to	look her	in	the	eyes	and	tell	her	she	no	longer	has	a	job.	People	may	break	down	and tell	you	about	the	difficult	issues	they	face	that	affect	their	work-family problems,	personal	tragedies,	health	concerns,	mental	illnesses,	and	more. Nobody likes these	tough	situations,	but	some	people	are	better	than	others	at remaining	steady	and	providing	care	and	support	through	the	bumps	and	dips	of life.	If	you're	the	friend	whom	others	lean	on	in	difficult	times,	who	might	be described	as	empathetic	and	undramatic,	who	can	be	counted	on	to	defuse	rather than	escalate	tensions,	then	you'll	be	better	equipped	to	deal	with	the	range	of emotionally	charged	scenarios	that	meet	any	manager's	path.
Below	are	some	other	common	answers	to	the	question,	'Why	do	you	want	to	be a	manager?'	Depending	on	the	circumstances,	management	may	not	be	the	best way	to	achieve	these	goals.

## I	Want	to	Progress	in	My	Career (p33)

'Becoming	a	manager'	is	often	seen	as	'getting	a	promotion,'	which	invokes starry	images	of	a	golden	future:	opportunities	to	have	more	impact,	take	on exciting	new	challenges,	and	be	rewarded	with	more	compensation	and recognition. In	many	organizations,	your	ability	to	grow	in	your	career	will	hit	a	ceiling unless	you	start	managing	people.	All	C-level	executives	lead	teams.	If	your ambitions	are	to	be	a	CEO	or	VP	someday,	you're	going	to	need	to	move	on	to the	management	track.	There	are	also	jobs	where,	beyond	a	certain	skill	level, the	only	path	for	growth	is	learning	how	to	manage	and	coordinate	the	work	of more	and	more	people-for	example,	in	customer	support	or	retail	sales. That	said,	many	organizations	today,	particularly	those	that	seek	to	attract highly	skilled	or	creative	talent,	have	paths	for	advancement	that	don't	require managing	others.	For	example,	if	you	are	a	heart	surgeon,	you	might	hone	your skills	through	years	of	practice	to	become	a	distinguished	expert	in	your	fieldsomeone	who	ends	up	taking	on	the	hardest	cases	and	pioneering	innovative	new techniques.	You	shouldn't	have	to	become	a	hospital	general	manager	in	order	to make	more	money	or	have	more	impact-both	expert	surgeons	and	hospital managers	are	highly	valued. Similarly,	in	many	tech	companies	today,	roles	like	engineering	or	design offer	parallel	career	paths	once	you	reach	a	certain	level	of	seniority-you	can either	grow	as	a	manager	or	as	an	'individual	contributor.'	Both	tracks	afford equal	opportunities	for	impact,	growth,	and	compensation	up	to	the	C-level, which	means	that	becoming	a	manager	is	not	a promotion but	rather	a transition . In	fact,	in	Silicon	Valley,	the	'10x	engineer'-someone	whose	output	is	the equivalent	of	ten	typical	engineers-is	so	sought	after	that	he	or	she	commands the	same	pay	as	directors	and	VPs	managing	dozens	or	hundreds	of	people.
If	you	work	in	an	organization	that	supports	growing	as	an	individual contributor,	take	advantage	of	the	fact	that	you	have	a	choice,	and	figure	out which	path	is	better	suited	to	your	strengths	and	interests.

## I	Want	Freedom	to	Call	the	Shots (p34)

Many	people	dream	of	the	day	when	they	wake	up	fully	in	control	of	their	own destiny.	No	being	told	what	to	do,	no	catering	to	anyone	else's	whims,	no	having to	be	told	'no'	or	'you're	wrong.'	They	look	at	bosses	who	steer	the	ship through	their	decisions,	and	imagine	how	nice	it	would	be	to	have	that	kind	of freedom	and	influence. The	truth	is,	while	managers	do	get	to	make	a	number	of	calls,	those decisions	must	be	in	the	interest	of	the	team,	otherwise	they	will	lose	trust	and	be rendered	ineffective.	No	leader	gets	free	rein	without	accountability-if	their decisions	turn	out	to	be	bad,	they	are	held	to	task.	Owners	see	their	businesses flounder;	CEOs	of	public	companies	get	fired	by	their	board. I	experienced	this	firsthand	as	a	new	manager	during	the	early	stages	of	a product	proposal.	As	I	was	driving	home	from	work	one	day,	a	brilliant	idea suddenly	took	hold	of	me.	It	emerged	fully	formed	in	my	mind-exactly	what the	pitch	would	be,	how	the	design	would	work,	why	people	would	love	it. Excitedly,	I	went	home	and	sketched	out	my	thoughts	on	paper.	The	next	day,	I called	a	meeting	with	my	team.	I	walked	the	other	designers	through	the	idea and	asked	them	to	work	on	developing	my	sketch	into	a	full	proposal. My	first	hint	that	something	wasn't	right	was	when	I	checked	in	on	the	work a	few	days	later.	Progress	was	slow.	People	interpreted	the	sketch	in	different ways,	and	hours	were	lost	in	circular	debate	about	the	proposal's	core	features. Thinking	I	hadn't	explained	myself	well,	I	clarified	what	I	was	looking	for. Another	week	passed;	unfortunately,	the	results	weren't	much	better. That	was	when	I	realized	the	root	problem:	None	of	the	designers	were	truly sold	on	my	idea.	They	didn't	think	it	was	going	to	succeed.	And	because	of	that, the	work	trudged	along,	lacking	heart	and	soul.	I	learned	then	one	of	my	first lessons	of	management-the	best	outcomes	come	from	inspiring	people	to action,	not telling them	what	to	do.

## I	Was	Asked	to	Be	a	Manager (p34)

Maybe	your	company	is	turning	up	new	hires	as	quickly	as	flowers	in	April. Maybe	your	manager	now	has	fifteen	reports	and	desperately	needs	somebody else	to	manage	alongside	her.	Maybe	you're	seen	as	talented	and	well	respected, so	it	feels	like	the	next	logical	step.	Certainly	if	you've	been	excited	about management,	this	is	a	wonderful	opportunity.	But	beware	the	trap	of	obligation. 'I	should'	and	'I	can'	are	not	sufficient	reasons.	Do	you	really	want	to? This	scenario	is	what	led	to	me	becoming	a	manager,	and	it	worked	out because	I	genuinely enjoy managing.	It's	also	what	drove	me	to	ask	my	star designer	to	manage.	She	said	yes	because	she	was	a	team	player	who	didn't	want to	let	the	team	down.	But	the	role	ultimately	wasn't	a	good	fit,	and	we	all	paid the	cost	when	she	decided	to	leave. If	you're	not	sure	that	management	is	the	right	path	for	you,	there	are	things you	can	do	to	get	a	better	feel	for	it,	like	mentoring	other	folks	on	the	team, taking	on	an	intern,	or	interviewing	managers	who	have	recently	transitioned	to understand	what	their	experiences	were	like.	If	you	do	try	management	and	later realize	that	it	isn't	what	you	want	to	do,	that's	okay	too.	Have	the	honest conversation	with	your	manager	about	your	goals	and	ask	her	to	help	you explore	alternative	career	paths.

## THE	DIFFERENCE	BETWEEN	LEADERSHIP	AND MANAGEMENT (p35)

When	I	first	started	the	job,	I	considered manager and leader to	be	synonyms. Managers	lead,	and	leaders	manage,	right? Nope,	wrong. Manager is	a	specific	role,	just	as elementary	school	teacher and heart surgeon are	specific	roles.	As	we	discussed	a	few	pages	ago,	there	are clear	principles	outlining	what	a	manager	does	and	how	his	success	is	measured. Leadership ,	on	the	other	hand,	is	the	particular	skill	of	being	able	to	guide and	influence	other	people. 'What	makes	a	good	leader	is	that	they	eschew	the	spotlight	in	favor	of spending	time	and	energy	to	do	what	they	need	to	do	to	support	and	protect	their people,'	writes	Simon	Sinek	in Leaders	Eat	Last .	In	return,	'We	offer	our	blood and	sweat	and	tears	and	do	everything	we	can	to	see	our	leader's	vision	come	to life.' Now,	a	manager	who	doesn't	know	how	to	influence	others	isn't	going	to	be particularly	effective	at	improving	the	outcomes	of	her	team.	So	to	be	a	great manager,	one	must	certainly	be	a	leader.
A	leader,	on	the	other	hand,	doesn't	have	to	be	a	manager.	Anyone	can	exhibit leadership,	regardless	of	their	role.	Think	of	a	store	clerk	calmly	directing shoppers	to	safety	when	the	screeching	tornado	bell	goes	off	in	a	mall.	Think	of a	passionate	citizen	going	door-to-door	and	convincing	neighbors	to	join	him	in protesting	a	recent	decision.	Think	of	generations	upon	generations	of	mothers and	fathers	demonstrating	to	their	children	what	it	means	to	act	like	a responsible	adult. If	you	picture	your	own	organization,	you	can	probably	come	up	with	many examples	of	leadership:	an	individual	contributor	who	surfaces	important customer	complaints	and	then	coordinates	solutions	across	multiple	teams,	a team	member	who	rallies	a	group	to	work	on	a	new	idea,	a	veteran	employee who	is	a	sought-out	oracle	of	wisdom.	If	you	can	pinpoint	a	problem	and motivate	others	to	work	with	you	to	solve	it,	then	you're	leading. Leadership	is	a	quality	rather	than	a	job.	We	are	all	leaders	and	followers	at different	points	in	our	lives.	Many	aspects	of	this	book	should	be	useful	to	those looking	to	grow	as	leaders	as	well	as	managers,	and	great	managers	should cultivate	leadership	not	just	in	themselves	but	also	within	their	teams. This	is	an	important	distinction	because	while	the	role	of	a	manager	can	be given	to	someone	(or	taken	away),	leadership	is	not	something	that	can	be bestowed.	It	must	be	earned.	People	must want to	follow	you. You	can	be	someone's	manager,	but	if	that	person	does	not	trust	or	respect you,	you	will	have	limited	ability	to	influence	him.	I	did	not	suddenly	become	a 'leader'	the	day	my	title	officially	changed.	On	the	contrary,	some	of	my	reports were	initially	skeptical,	and	it	took	time	for	us	to	develop	a	strong	relationship. In	your	early	days	as	a	manager,	what	matters	most	is	transitioning	gracefully into	the	role	and	nailing	the	essentials	of	leading	a	small	team.	Only	when	you have	built	trust	with	your	reports	will	you	have	the	credibility	to	help	them achieve	more	together.

## Chapter	Two (p37)


## Your	First	Three	Months (p37)

Whenever	a	new	manager joins	my	team,	my	favorite	questions	to	ask	a few	months	in	are:	'What	turned	out	to	be	more	challenging	than	you	expected, and	what	was	easier	than	you	expected?' For	the	first	question,	one	manager	laughed	and	quoted	me	a	poster	on	our walls:	'Every	day	feels	like	a	week.'	His	answer	was	a	variation	on	the	most common	thing	I	hearthere's	so	much	to	learn	and	you	feel	overwhelmed . As	for	what	turned	out	to	be	easier	than	expected,	the	answers	were	more varied.	An	individual	contributor	turned	manager	told	me	how	glad	he	was	that he	already	knew	everyone	on	his	team	and	what	they	were	working	on.	A manager	new	to	the	company	shared	how	helpful	her	peers	were	in	answering her	'n00b-ish'	questions. No	matter	how	you've	arrived	at	your	new	role,	congratulations	are	in	order because	this	much	is	true:	Somebody-more	likely many people-believed	in you	and	your	potential	to	lead	a	team.	That's	why	you're	holding	this	book. Your	path	here	probably	took	one	of	the	four	routes	below:
Apprentice: Your	manager's	team	is	growing,	so	you've	been	asked	to manage	a	part	of	it	going	forward.
Pioneer: You	are	a	founding	member	of	a	new	group,	and	you're	now responsible	for	its	growth.
New	Boss: You're	coming	in	to	manage	an	already	established	team,	either within	your	existing	organization	or	at	a	new	one.
Successor: Your	manager	has	decided	to	leave,	and	you	are	taking	his place.
Depending	on	your	path,	different	things	may	be	easy	or	hard	for	you	in	your first	three	months.	Choose	your	own	adventure	below	to	learn	more	about	what to	expect.

## THE	APPRENTICE (p39)

As	teams	grow,	so	do	opportunities	for	new	managers.	I	went	down	this	path when	our	team's	leader,	Rebekah,	realized	that	we	needed	more	support	after	our team	doubled.

## What	to	Take	Advantage	Of (p40)

This	is	usually	the	easiest	way	to	transition	into	being	a	manager. Because your	own	manager	has	been	looking	over	the	team	and	knows	everyone involved,	you'll	typically	have	more	guidance	than	in	the	other	transition scenarios. When	I	started,	Rebekah	gave	me	a	list	of	names	and	said,	'Here's	who	I think	should	be	on	your	team.'	In	hindsight,	I	can	see	just	how	intentional	she was	in	planning	my	transition.	She	started	me	off	with	just	a	handful	of	reports whom	she	felt	I	could	successfully	manage,	and	she	worked	to	ensure	I	was	set up	well	(including	helping	me	get	to	a	great	relationship	with	my	initially skeptical	report	from	that	first	1:1). In	my	first	few	months,	Rebekah	was	my	constant	sounding	board.	If	I	wasn't sure	how	to	respond	to	a	request	or	if	a	situation	came	up	that	I	felt	unprepared for,	she	was	there	to	coach	me.	If	you're	transitioning	as	an	apprentice,	work with	your	manager	on	a	joint	plan	for	getting	started.	Questions	to	discuss include:
What	will	be	my	scope	to	start,	and	how	do	you	expect	it	to	change	over time?
What	do	I	need	to	know	about	the	people	that	I'll	be	managing?
What	important	team	goals	or	processes	should	I	be	aware	of	and	help	push forward?
What	does	success	look	like	in	my	first	three	and	six	months?
How	can	the	two	of	us	stay	aligned	on	who	does	what?
You	have	a	sense	of	what	works	and	what	doesn't. Because	you've	gotten	a front-row	view	into	how	your	team	operates-how	meetings	are	run,	how decisions	get	made,	what	your	team	members	are	like-you're	coming	into	your role	with	considerable	information.
A	useful	exercise	to	go	through	at	the	beginning	of	your	transition	is	to	sit down	and	make	a	list	of	all	the	things	that	are	awesome	about	the	current	state	of the	world.	Does	everyone	get	along?	Are	your	processes	efficient?	Is	your	team known	for	rigorous	and	high-quality	work? Now,	next	to	that,	create	a	list	of	all	the	things	that	could	be	better.	Is	your team	cagey	about	deadlines?	Does	it	seem	like	priorities	are	always	shifting?	Is there	that	one	really	long	weekly	meeting	nobody	wants	to	attend? These	two	lists	give	you	the	start	of	a	plan	for	what	you	should	and	shouldn't change.	You	don't	need	to	fix	what	isn't	broken,	but	neither	should	you	feel	like you're	stuck	in	a	time	machine	of this	is	how	it	was	always	done .	After	all,	that's why	you	got	the	job!	Taking	the	time	to	reflect	on	the	biggest	opportunities	for improvement	helps	you	understand	how	to	best	act	as	a	multiplier	for	your	team.
You're	able	to	ramp	up	quickly	because	you	have	context. Unlike	a	manager coming	in	from	the	outside,	you	have	a	good	understanding	of	the	team	already -not	just	how	it	works	but	also	its	goals	and	the	projects	that	are	in	flight. Because	of	this,	you	don't	need	as	long	of	a	period	to	listen	and	learn.	You	can start	being	useful	much	faster.

## What	to	Watch	Out	For (p41)

It	can	feel	awkward	to	establish	a	new	dynamic	with	former	peers. Before,	you were	just	another	individual	contributor	on	the	team.	Now,	you	are	the	boss, which	means	your	relationship	with	teammates	might	feel	altered.	When	I started,	I	found	the	below	challenging,	especially	with	reports	whom	I considered	friends:
Playing	the	role	of	coach: Your	job	now	includes	understanding	your former	peers'	career	goals,	what	kinds	of	projects	are	well	suited	to	their strengths	and	interests,	what	they	need	help	with,	and	how	they	are	doing relative	to	expectations.	At	first,	it	felt	strange	and	sometimes uncomfortable	asking	a	friend	or	former	peer,	'What	do	you	want	to	be working	toward	in	a	year's	time?'	or	'What	do	you	consider	your strengths?'	especially	when	we	didn't	talk	about	those	things	before. But	don't	avoid	those	conversations,	even	if	they	feel	awkward.	Seek to	understand	what	your	new	reports	care	about.	Give	them	feedback about	what	they're	doing	well	and	where	they	might	stretch	(covered	in	a later	chapter).	Think	of	yourself	as	a	coach	who	is	there	to	support	and help	your	people	reach	their	goals.
Having	hard	conversations: When	I	gave	my	peers	feedback	on	their work	in	the	past,	I'd	frame	criticisms	as	suggestions-'Hey,	just	an	idea, but	have	you	considered	.	.	.	?'	I	knew	that,	ultimately,	they	owned	their own	decisions.	When	I	became	my	peers'	manager,	I	found	it	difficult	to change	this	mindset	even	when	I	needed	to. The	manager-report	relationship	is	different	than	the	peer	relationship. You	are	now	responsible	for	the	outcome	of	your	team,	including	all	the decisions	that	are	made	within	it.	If	something	is	getting	in	the	way	of great	work	happening,	you	need	to	address	it	swiftly	and	directly.	This may	mean	giving	people	difficult	feedback	or	making	some	hard	calls. The	sooner	you	internalize	that	you	own	the	outcomes	of	your	team,	the easier	it	becomes	to	have	these	conversations.
Having	people	treat	you	differently	or	share	less	information	with you: I	was	surprised	when	my	peers,	who	used	to	be	so	transparent	with me	about	everything,	suddenly	seemed	to	share	less	after	I	became	their manager.	They	wouldn't	always	tell	me	when	they	were	struggling	or annoyed	or	had	a	disagreement	with	another	member	of	the	team.	If	I walked	in	on	two	of	them	venting	about	something,	they'd	stop	and	look at	me	sheepishly.	I	found	it	harder	to	get	a	clear	picture	of	what	was happening	on	the	ground. Over	time,	however,	I	recognized	that,	yes,	this	was	normal.	My reports	were	wary	of	bothering	me	or	coming	across	poorly.	It	was	up	to me	to	work	harder	to	establish	a	trusting	relationship	(the	topic	of	the	next chapter).

## It's	tricky	to	balance	your	individual	contributor	commitments	with (p42)

management. As	an	apprentice,	you	rarely	start	out	with	a	big	team.	It's	more likely	that	you	begin	with	a	handful	of	reports	and	welcome	more	people	in	over time.	This	means	that,	in	the	early	days,	most	new	apprentice	managers	are	also handling	individual	contributor	responsibilities.	In	addition	to	supporting	others, you're	also	still	selling	lemonade. I	thought	this	was	a	fine	arrangement.	I	was	afraid	that	if	I	stopped	doing design	work	myself,	I'd	slowly	lose	my	skills,	which	would	make	it	harder	for me	to	be	an	effective	leader.	Unfortunately,	the	mistake	that	I	made-and	that	I see	virtually	every	apprentice	manager	make-is	continuing	to	do	individual contributor	work	past	the	point	at	which	it	is	sustainable. When	my	team	became	six	or	so,	I	was	still	the	lead	designer	for	a	complex project	that	demanded	many	hours	of	the	week.	Because	my	management responsibilities	were	also	growing,	every	time	something	out	of	the	ordinary happened-a	report	needed	extra	one-on-one	attention	or	our	team	had	multiple reviews	to	prepare	for	that	week-I	wouldn't	have	enough	time	to	devote	to	my own	project.	The	quality	of	my	work	suffered,	my	peers	got	frustrated,	and	the balls	I	was	desperately	trying	to	juggle	plopped	to	the	ground. I	finally	realized	that	I	had	to	give	up	wanting	to	be	both	a	design	manager and a	designer,	because	in	attempting	to	do	both,	I	was	doing	neither	well.	Don't learn	this	the	hard	way-at	the	point	in	which	your	team	becomes	four	or	five people,	you	should	have	a	plan	for	how	to	scale	back	your	individual	contributor responsibilities	so	that	you	can	be	the	best	manager	for	your	people.

## THE	PIONEER (p43)

You	were	among	the	first	to	take	on	a	challenge	that	is	now	turning	into	a	bigger team	effort.	Growth	is	a	sign	that	things	are	going	well,	so	take	pride	in	what you've	accomplished!	You	might	be	a	start-up	founder	going	from	three	people in	a	garage	to	ten	full-time	employees,	or	the	first	accountant	hired	into	an organization	that's	now	building	out	an	entire	finance	department.	As	you	grow your	team,	keep	in	mind	the	following.
You've	done	the	job,	so	you	know	what	it	takes. You	were	the	first,	the	original, the	alpha;	no	one	knows	better	than	you	what	the	job	entails	because	you	helped define	it.	Now	it's	time	to	take	it	to	the	next	level. To	be	successful,	you'll	need	to	unearth	all	the	values	and	know-how	in	your head	and	pass	them	along	to	others.	In	the	early	days,	make	sure	that	you're spending	time	calibrating	with	your	new	team	on	what	your	group's	goals, values,	and	processes	ought	to	be.	Some	questions	to	ask	yourself	in	preparation:
What	are	all	the	responsibilities	I	took	care	of	when	it	was	just	me?
What's	easy	or	hard	about	working	in	this	function?
What	new	processes	are	needed	now	that	this	team	is	growing?
You	get	to	build	the	team	that	you	want. One	of	the	privileges	of	being	a	pioneer is	that	you're	able	to	choose	the	people	you	want	to	work	with	and	how	you want	to	work	with	them.	Instead	of	inheriting	a	team,	you	get	to	create	a	brandnew	one.	Be	deliberate	about	the	people	and	culture	you're	setting	up,	and	ask yourself:
What	qualities	do	I	want	in	a	team	member?
What	skills	does	our	team	need	to	complement	my	own?
How	should	this	team	look	and	function	in	a	year?
How	will	my	own	role	and	responsibilities	evolve?
You	may	not	have	much	support. The	life	of	a	pioneer	is	filled	with	adventure and	solitude.	Think	of	the	first	designer	at	a	company	being	asked	to	grow	the user-experience	discipline.	Whom	does	she	turn	to	if	she	has	questions	about how	to	hire	and	onboard	other	designers?	She's	the	only	one	of	her	kind!	As	a pioneer,	you	continually	find	yourself	alone	in	new,	unfamiliar	terrain.	But	that doesn't	mean	you	can't	seek	out	help. Though	you	may	be	the	only	manager	doing	what	you	do	at	your organization,	there	are	two	other	groups	you	can	lean	on	for	support:	other managers	in	your	organization	who	support	related	functions,	and	managers	in your	area	of	expertise	outside	your	organization. At	Facebook,	the	engineering	team	was	always	many	times	bigger	than design.	Whenever	I	encountered	a	new	challenge-our	weekly	team	meeting became	inefficient,	for	example,	or	my	reports	were	asking	for	clearer	career paths-I'd	turn	to	my	manager	friends	in	engineering	and	ask	them	if	they	ever dealt	with	something	similar.	Eight	times	out	of	ten,	the	answer	was,	'Of	course, we	had	that	problem	three	years	ago	when	we	were	your	size,	and	here's	what we	learned.' Outside	of	your	organization,	finding	a	group	of	leaders	in	similar	roles	at other	places	can	provide	you	with	an	invaluable	network	of	support.	My	friend who	is	an	entrepreneur	swears	by	what	he	calls	'informal	CEO	training'	from casual	dinners	he	attends	with	other	founders.	For	me,	I'll	often	have	coffee	with design	managers	from	other	companies	like	Google,	Airbnb,	and	Amazon, where	we'll	discuss	common	challenges	in	the	design	industry	or	bigger	trends we're	seeing.	Though	we	keep	away	from	discussing	the	specifics	of	our	work, being	able	to	talk	shop	with	others	who	get	what	I	do	always	teaches	me	a	lot.

## It's	tricky	to	balance	your	IC	work	with	management. See	description	from 'The	Apprentice,'	this	page (p45)


## THE	NEW	BOSS (p45)

A	team	is	welcoming	you	as	its	new	leader,	which	is	no	small	achievement!	If you	find	yourself	in	this	situation,	you	probably	have	past	management experience.	Organizations	rarely	hire	untested	managers	to	oversee	already established	teams.	Assuming	that	the	job	isn't	completely	new	to	you,	there	are still	some	nuances	to	be	aware	of.
People	cut	you	slack	in	the	beginning. The	biggest	advantage	of	being	new	is that	you	have	a	window	of	time,	usually	about	three	months,	when	everyone recognizes	that	you're	the	new	kid	on	the	block.	You	are	not	expected	to	know anything	at	first,	from	what	everyone	works	on	to	what	the	current	strategy	is. Mistakes	you	make	will	be	brushed	aside,	and	you'll	find	that	your	colleagues are	usually	quite	willing	to	help	you	get	up	to	speed.	Use	the	newbie	card	to	your advantage	by	asking	as	many	questions	of	as	many	people	as	you	can.	You	might feel	the	urge	to	keep	quiet	and	not	draw	any	attention	to	yourself	until	you 'know	enough,'	but	if	your	goal	is	to	ramp	up	quickly,	you	need	to	be	proactive in	your	onboarding. If	you	anticipate	needing	to	work	closely	with	someone,	see	if	that	person would	be	willing	to	meet	one-on-one	with	you	so	you	can	get	to	know	each	other and	understand	what	she	cares	about.	If	you're	not	sure	whom	you'll	be	working with,	ask	your	manager	for	a	list	of	people	to	reach	out	to. Don't	shy	away	from	asking	questions,	even	if	you	believe	you're	the	only one	who	doesn't	know.	( New	person	question,	but	what	does	the	acronym	IC stand	for? *)	Sometimes,	these	questions	also	help	others.	During	a	particularly active	discussion	around	a	go-to-market	plan,	a	new	manager	on	my	team	once piped	up,	'Excuse	me-I'm	new,	so	pardon	the	question-but	can	someone please	explain	what	we're	hoping	to	achieve	with	this	launch?' That	question	led	the	room	to	stop	and	take	a	step	back.	Having	gotten	so caught	up	in	the	launch	details,	we	realized	we	needed	to	make	sure	we	were	all aligned	on	the	broader	goal	first.	At	the	end	of	the	discussion,	a	long-tenured team	member	said	admiringly	to	the	new	manager,	' I hadn't	even	connected	the dots	on	what	we	cared	about,	so	your	question	was	awesome.'
You	start	with	a	blank	slate. Did	you	have	a	reputation	for	being	indecisive	or stubborn	in	your	last	role?	Now	that	you're	coming	in	fresh,	you	have	a	chance to	form	new	ties	and	reset	your	identity. This	also	works	the	other	way	around.	Some	of	your	reports	will	appreciate the	chance	to	build	the	kind	of	manager-report	relationship	that	they've	always wanted.	Stay	open-minded	and	curious	as	you	meet	everyone. A	new	boss	friend	of	mine	was	told	by	a	colleague	that	one	of	her	reports	was 'a	worse-than-average	employee.'	She	thanked	the	colleague	for	the	information but	resolved	to	come	to	her	own	conclusions.	Over	the	next	six	months,	she	grew to	develop	a	fantastic	relationship	with	that	report,	who	thrived	under	her coaching-within	a	year,	that	person	was	promoted	to	be	a	team	lead. To	make	the	most	of	having	a	blank	slate,	give	everyone	the	benefit	of	the doubt,	no	matter	what	you're	told.	Hopefully	others	will	do	the	same	for	you. And	be	up	front	with	people-especially	your	reports-about	the	kind	of relationship	you'd	like	to	build	and	the	kind	of	manager	you	want	to	be.	These topics	are	easier	to	discuss	up	front	before	you've	settled	into	patterns	and routines.	In	your	first	few	one-on-one	meetings,	ask	your	reports	the	following questions	to	understand	what	their	'dream	manager'	looks	like.
What	did	you	and	your	past	manager	discuss	that	was	most	helpful	to	you?
What	are	the	ways	in	which	you'd	like	to	be	supported?
How	do	you	like	to	be	recognized	for	great	work?
What	kind	of	feedback	is	most	useful	for	you?
Imagine	that	you	and	I	had	an	amazing	relationship.	What	would	that	look like?
It	takes	a	while	to	adjust	to	the	norms	of	a	new	environment. No	matter	how talented	you	are,	learning	how	a	new	team	works	takes	time,	whether	you're joining	a	different	company	or	changing	roles	at	an	existing	company.	One	of	the biggest	mistakes	new	bosses	make	is	thinking	they	need	to	jump	in	and	exert their	opinions	right	away	to	show	that	they	are	capable. Actually,	that	approach	tends	to	backfire.	Few	things	are	more	annoying	than a	new	person	wasting	everyone	else's	time	because	they	are	trying	to	prove	they know	something	when	their	opinion	isn't	actually	informed. In	your	first	few	months,	your	primary	job	is	to	listen,	ask	questions,	and learn.	New	managers	on	my	team	tell	me	that	the	thing	they	most	want	to understand	is	how	to	calibrate	their	expectations	around	'what's	normal.'	One effective	way	to	do	that	is	to	look	at	specific	scenarios	together	with	your	own manager.	Questions	to	ask	include:
What	does	it	mean	to	do	a	great	job	versus	an	average	or	poor	job?	Can	you give	me	some	examples?
Can	you	share	your	impressions	of	how	you	think	Project	X	or	Meeting	Y went?	Why	do	you	think	that?
I	noticed	that	Z	happened	the	other	day.	.	.	.	Is	that	normal	or	should	I	be concerned?
How	do	you	determine	which	things	to	prioritize?
You	need	to	invest	in	building	new	relationships. As	a	new	boss	with	a	new team,	you're	back	to	square	one	when	it	comes	to	establishing	trust.	Besides	the many	names	and	faces	to	keep	track	of,	you	might	feel	the	isolation	of	being	an outsider.	Your	teammates	all	know	each	other,	whereas	you	don't	yet	have	that same	level	of	comfort	with	the	group.	It	can	be	especially	challenging	if	you	feel that	people	aren't	being	completely	open	with	you. One	tactic	a	friend	of	mine	uses	to	buck	this	trend	is	to	address	the	elephant in	the	room:	'Since	I'm	new,	you	might	not	feel	comfortable	sharing	everything with	me	right	away.	I	hope	to	earn	your	trust	over	time.	I'll	start	by	sharing	more about	myself,	including	my	biggest	failure	ever	.	.	.'	I	love	this	anecdote	because it's	the	epitome	of	'show,	don't	tell.'	What	better	way	to	set	the	tone	that	it's okay	to	talk	about	anything	than	by	diving	headfirst	into	revealing	a	personal vulnerability?
Building	a	great	relationship	doesn't	happen	overnight.	In	the	next	chapter, we'll	go	much	deeper	into	the	ingredients	needed	for	trust.
You	don't	know	the	job	and	what	it	takes. When	you	said	yes	to	the	role,	you couldn't	have	predicted	the	exact	nature	of	the	team,	the	work,	and	the environment.	Now	that	you're	here,	maybe	the	job	and	its	challenges	aren't exactly	what	you	envisioned. In	this	situation,	the	best	policy	is	to	be	honest	with	your	own	manager	about what's	working	for	you	and	what	isn't,	and	to	understand	his	expectations	for your	ramp	up.	A	new	manager	on	my	team	once	confided	in	me	that	he'd	had more	difficulties	connecting	with	his	peers	than	he	expected,	and	as	a	result	he wasn't	able	to	influence	decision-making. Because	he	brought	it	up	proactively,	we	were	able	to	create	a	plan	for	him	to have	some	honest	conversations	with	his	partners.	They	immediately	put	in	extra effort	to	include	him	in	discussions	once	they	heard	his	concerns,	while	also sharing	with	him	some	valuable	feedback	on	how	he	could	communicate	more effectively.	Within	a	week,	the	situation	turned	around,	and	his	ramp	up	went much	smoother	after	that.

## THE	SUCCESSOR (p48)

The	successor	transition	is	like	the	apprentice's	but	with	a	twist:	because	your manager	is	leaving,	you're	taking	on	supporting	the	entire	team	yourself,	not	just a	portion	of	it.	Though	most	successors	have	prior	management	experience,	it's still	a	significant	increase	in	responsibility	and	you	may	feel	you	have	big	shoes to	fill. While	the	advantages	of	this	transition	are	similar	to	those	of	the	apprentice (you	have	a	sense	of	what	works	and	what	doesn't,	and	you're	able	to	ramp	up quickly	because	you	come	in	with	context,	as	described	earlier),	the	differences are	also	striking.

## It	can	feel	awkward	to	establish	a	new	dynamic	with	former	peers. See description	from	'The	Apprentice,'	this	page. (p48)

The	increase	in	responsibility	can	feel	overwhelming. It's	not	unusual	to	go through	periods	of	feeling	that	you	bit	off	more	than	you	can	chew.	After	all, you're	now	being	asked	to	do	your	former	boss's	job.	And	despite	having	a sense	of	what	that	entails,	most	successors	are	surprised	by	the	extent	of	what they've	inherited.	'I	had	no	idea	the	lengths	my	former	manager	went	to	to shield	us	from	the	many	requests	from	other	teams,'	a	colleague	told	me	in amazement	after	she	became	the	successor.	'I'm	getting	contacted	left	and	right every	day,	and	I	realize	now	how	much	work	he	did	behind	the	scenes	to	take care	of	things.' Don't	be	too	hard	on	yourself,	and	ask	for	support	from	your	new	manager	as well	as	others	around	you	(more	on	that	in	Chapter	Five:	Managing	Yourself). It's	also	helpful	to	be	up	front	with	your	colleagues	that	they	should	expect	a period	of	transition	as	you	ramp	up.	One	friend	shared	his	most	repeated	line	in those	early	weeks:	'Our	last	manager	left	big	shoes	to	fill,	and	while	I'll	do	my best,	I	expect	I'll	go	through	a	few	bumps	along	the	way.	I	want	to	ask	you	for your	help	and	support	during	this	period.'	Setting	the	stage	explicitly	like	that lets	others	understand	what	you're	going	through	and	offer	aid	as	you	adjust	to your	new	scope.
You	feel	pressure	to	do	things	exactly	like	your	former	manager. Because	the memory	of	how	things	used	to	be	is	still	fresh	in	your	team's	mind,	it's	easy	to fall	into	the	trap	of	thinking	you	need	to	preserve	the	status	quo.	You	may	feel	as if	everyone	is	looking	to	you	to	be	just	as	good	at	everything	as	your	former manager,	even	though	you're	different	people. Change	is	a	prerequisite	for	improvement,	so	give	yourself	permission	to move	on	from	the	past.	Remember	the	well-known	adage:	'Be	yourself; everyone	else	is	already	taken.'	You	will	be	far	more	successful	aspiring	to	be the	leader you want	to	be	and	playing	to your strengths	than	trying	to	live	up	to some	other	ideal. When	a	beloved	manager	on	my	team,	Robyn	Morris,	left	after	many	years	to pursue	a	different	passion,	I	was	talking	with	one	of	his	successors	about	how much	we	all	missed	him	and	deeply	felt	his	absence. She	said	to	me,	'No	one	person	can	entirely	replace	Robyn,	and	that's	okay. More	of	us	will	just	need	to	step	up	to	grow	into	the	gaps	that	he	left	behind.' Sure	enough,	a	year	later,	the	team	was	thriving,	and	the	ways	that	this	manager and	others	blossomed	as	leaders	have	been	amazing	to	watch.
Your	first	three	months	as	a	new	manager	are	a	time	of	incredible	transition.	By the	end	of	it,	the	day-to-day	starts	to	feel	familiar-you're	adapting	to	new routines,	you're	investing	in	new	relationships,	and	you	may	begin	to	have	a sense	of	how	you	can	best	support	your	team. But	time	isn't	a	substitute	for	comfort.	That	new-kid-at-school	feeling	may linger	for	months	or	years	longer.	New	managers	often	ask	me,	'How	long	will	it take	to	feel	like	I	know	what	I'm	doing?'	I	reply	quite	honestly,	'It	took	me about	three	years.' In	the	chapters	ahead,	we'll	look	at	all	the	major	aspects	of	a	manager's	jobfrom	coaching	reports	to	hiring	new	ones,	from	organizing	meetings	to organizing	the	anxiety	inside	your	head.	Hand	in	hand	with	the	experience	of actually doing ,	the	goal	of	these	upcoming	stories,	principles,	and	exercises	is	to take	you	from	your	first	ninety	days	and	make	you	into	the	manager	you	want	to be.

## Chapter	Three (p51)


## Leading	a	Small	Team (p51)

When	I	had	around eight	people	on	my	team,	we	would	run	a	weekly meeting	called	critique. Even	though	this	meeting	was	ninety	minutes	long,	it	was	one	of	my	favorite parts	of	the	week.	The	team	would	gather	around	a	conference	room	table	with	a giant	TV.	We'd	pick	an	order-clockwise	or	counterclockwise-and	someone would	volunteer	to	go	first.	After	fiddling	with	cables	and	plugging	in	her laptop,	the	presenter's	latest	work	would	pop	up	on	the	screen	before	us. While	the	designer	described	the	problem	she	was	trying	to	solve	and	how she	got	to	her	present	solution,	our	eyes	drank	in	the	details	of	this	potential blueprint	for	the	future.	We	imagined	ourselves	as	typical	users	waking	up	one morning	and	being	presented	with	this	new	experience.	What	did	we	notice	first? What	was	clear	or	confusing?	What	would	make	this	even	better? After	her	brief	introduction,	the	critiques	would	start.	Anybody	in	the	room could	chime	in	with	questions,	concerns,	or	suggestions.	These	could	be	as strategic	as	'Does	the	problem	being	solved	here	really	matter?'	or	as	tactical	as 'Should	the	collection	of	items	be	displayed	as	a	grid	or	a	list?' The	team	would	discuss	and	debate.	We'd	offer	up	new	ideas	to	explore	in the	spirit	of	making	the	experience	better.	We'd	bring	up	similar	examples	to learn	from.	We'd	connect	the	dots	on	projects	that	different	designers	were working	on.	At	its	best,	critique	was	honest,	creative,	and	deeply	collaborative. At	the	end,	the	presenter	would	emerge	with	a	list	of	clear	next	steps.	We'd move	on	to	the	next	designer,	and	the	process	would	repeat	until	everyone	had	a chance	to	present	and	get	feedback. To	me,	this	meeting	always	felt	like	the	epitome	of	what	I	loved	about managing	a	small	team.	You	don't	build	Rome	in	a	day,	and	you	don't	start	off your	management	career	standing	in	front	of	a	packed	room	delivering	a	ten-year vision.	Instead,	most	of	us	begin	by	managing	just	a	few	people.	You	cultivate	an environment	of	trust	while	diving	into	the	detailed	depths	of	the	work. Everybody	knows	everybody,	and	two	pizzas	are	enough	to	feed	the	group. Managing	a	small	team	is	about	mastering	a	few	basic	fundamentals: developing	a	healthy	manager-report	relationship	and	creating	an	environment of	support.	In	this	chapter,	we'll	dive	in	to	the	specifics	of	those	skills.

## EVERYTHING	ALWAYS	GOES	BACK	TO	PEOPLE (p54)

Remember	our	definition	of	management?	A	manager's	job	is	to get	better outcomes	from	a	group	of	people	working	together through	influencing	purpose, people,	and	process. With	a	small	team,	maintaining	a	shared	sense	of	purpose	is	straightforward. You	don't	get	many	crossed	wires	when	your	team	can	still	fit	around	one	table. That	leaves	people	and	process	to	focus	on.	Of	those	two,	people	are	by	far	the most	important. What	leads	people	to	do	great	work?	It	feels	like	a	complicated	question	but	it really	isn't,	as	Andy	Grove	points	out	in	his	classic High	Output	Management . He	flips	the	question	around	and	asks:	What	gets	in	the	way	of	good	work? There	are	only	two	possibilities.	The	first	is	that people	don't	know	how	to	do good	work .	The	second	is	that	they	know	how,	but they	aren't	motivated . Let's	go	one	step	further.	Why	would	someone	not	know	how	to	do	great work?	The	obvious	answer	is	that	she	might	not	have	the	right	skills	for	the	job. If	you	needed	your	house	painted	and	you	hired	an	accountant,	you	shouldn't	be surprised	if	the	paint	job	is	splotchy.	Someone	trained	in	bookkeeping	doesn't necessarily	have	the	right	experience	to	be	a	first-rate	painter.	As	the	manager, you	can	do	one	of	two	things	here:	help	your	report	learn	those	skills	or	hire somebody	else	with	the	skills	you	need. Why	would	someone	not	be	motivated	to	do	great	work?	One	possible answer	is	that	he	doesn't	have	a	clear	picture	of	what	great	work	looks	like. Another	possibility	is	that	the	role	doesn't	speak	to	his	aspirations;	he can ,	but he'd	rather	be	doing	something	else.	Or	perhaps	he	thinks	nothing	will	change	if he	puts	in	more	effort-there	will	be	no	rewards	if	things	improve,	and	no penalties	if	they	don't,	so	why	bother? The	first	step	to	addressing	any	concerns	about	lackluster	work	is	diagnosing the	people	issues	behind	it.	Is	it	a	matter	of	motivation	or	skill?	This	doesn't have	to	be	complicated.	You	can	understand	this	through	a	series	of conversations	with	your	report.	First,	discuss	whether	your	expectations	are aligned-does	'great	work'	mean	the	same	thing	for	both	of	you?	Then	discuss whether	it's	a	matter	of	motivation.	If	both	of	those	don't	resolve	your	concerns, then	dive	in	to	whether	the	issue	is	with	skills.
Of	course,	the	above	only	works	if	you	can	have	honest,	constructive conversations	together.	No	matter	the	work	you	do	or	the	size	of	your	team, knowing	how	to	diagnose	and	solve	problems	with	your	reports	is	critical	to your	shared	success.	That	starts	first	and	foremost	with	building	a	stable foundation	for	your	relationship.

## TRUST	IS	THE	MOST	IMPORTANT	INGREDIENT (p55)

'You	must	trust	people,	or	life	becomes	impossible,'	the	writer	Anton	Chekhov once	said.	This	is	true	of	all	relationships-friendships,	marriages,	partnerships -and	the	manager-report	relationship	is	no	different. Sounds	obvious,	right?	But	it	is	easier	said	than	done,	especially	when	you're the	one	holding	more	of	the	chips	at	the	table.	No	matter	how	you	slice	it,	you are	your	reports'	boss.	You	have	more	impact	on	their	day-to-day	than	they	have on	yours.	This	means	that	the	responsibility	of	building	a	trusting	relationship lies	more	with	you	than	with	them. Think	of	your	relationship	with	your	own	manager.	When	things	aren't	going well	and	you	shuffle	into	her	office	feeling	discouraged	or	overwhelmed,	what do	you	say? If	you're	like	I	was	in	my	first	few	years,	the	answer	is:	nothing.	I	wasn't comfortable	admitting	to	my	manager	that	I	was	struggling.	I	didn't	want	her	to think	that	she	misplaced	her	faith	in	me.	If	one	of	the	projects	I	was	working	on was	going	off	the	rails	because	I	had	too	much	on	my	plate,	I'd	paint	it	as	'I'm juggling	a	lot	right	now,	but	no	need	to	worry,	I'll	be	fine.'	Meanwhile,	my stress	level	would	shoot	up	to	eleven	out	of	ten	as	I	worked	madly	around	the clock. It's	human	nature	to	want	your	manager	to	think	well	of	you.	Coming	across as	a	complainer,	a	failure,	or	a	problem	employee	seems	like	one	of	those obvious	don'ts	in	managing	up. The	issue,	of	course,	is	that	if	your	reports	don't	tell	you	how	they're	really feeling,	you	can't	help	them.	You	may	miss	early	warning	signs	that	lead	to bigger	problems	down	the	road.	People's	dissatisfaction	will	fester	beneath	the surface	until	one	day	they	surprise	you	with	their	resignation.	And	most	of	the time	when	that	happens,	they're	not	just	quitting	your	company,	they	are	also quitting	you. You	can	avoid	being	blindsided	by	developing	a	relationship	founded	on trust,	in	which	your	reports	feel	that	they	can	be	completely	honest	with	you because	they	have	no	doubt	that	you	truly	care	about	them.	You've	accomplished this	if	the	following	three	statements	are	true.
My	reports	regularly	bring	their	biggest	challenges	to	my	attention. A	hallmark of	a	trusting	relationship	is	that	people	feel	they	can	share	their	mistakes, challenges,	and	fears	with	you.	If	they're	struggling	through	an	assignment,	they tell	you	right	away	so	you	can	work	through	it	together.	If	they're	having	issues collaborating	with	somebody,	you	hear	it	first	from	them	and	not	through	the grapevine.	If	something's	keeping	them	up	at	night,	they	tell	you	what	it	is. One	of	my	teammates	shared	with	me	a	simple	litmus	test	for	assessing	the health	of	her	relationships:	If	she	asks	her	report	how	things	are	going	and	the answer	for	multiple	weeks	is	'Everything	is	fine,'	she	takes	it	as	a	sign	to	prod further.	It's	much	more	likely	that	the	report	is	shy	about	getting	into	the	gory details	than	that	everything	is	consistently	rainbows	and	butterflies.
My	report	and	I	regularly	give	each	other	critical	feedback	and	it	isn't	taken personally. If	your	report	does	work	that	you	don't	think	is	great,	are	you comfortable	saying	that	directly?	Similarly,	would	your	report	tell	you	if	he thinks	you've	made	a	mistake? My	friend	Mark	Rabkin	shared	a	tip	with	me	that	I	love:	strive	for	all	your one-on-one	meetings	to	feel	a	little	awkward.	Why?	Because	the	most	important and	meaningful	conversations	have	that	characteristic.	It	isn't	easy	to	discuss mistakes,	confront	tensions,	or	talk	about	deep	fears	or	secret	hopes,	but	no strong	relationship	can	be	built	on	superficial	pleasantries	alone. There's	no	wordsmithery	that	gets	around	the	awkwardness	of	expressing	a sentiment	like,	'I	don't	feel	that	you	recognize	when	I'm	doing	a	good	job'	or 'Last	week,	when	you	said	X,	it	made	me	feel	as	if	you	don't	really	understand my	project.'	But	these	things	need	to	be	said	in	order	to	be	addressed,	and	with	a bedrock	of	trust,	the	conversations	become	easier. Imagine	you	go	shopping	with	your	best	friend	and	she	comes	out	in	an unflattering	green-and-yellow	sweater.	'How	do	I	look?'	she	asks	you. 'Like	a	caterpillar,'	you	say.	You're	not	worried	about	insulting	her	because she's	your	best	friend	and	she'll	know	you	said	it	out	of	affection	rather	than spite. You'd	think	twice	about	directing	that	same	line	toward	a	stranger	because you	don't	have	any	shared	history	and	you	might	offend	them.	It	takes	repeated good	experiences	to	build	up	to	a	level	of	trust	where	you	can	be	vulnerable	and compassionately	critical	with	each	other.	In	the	next	chapter,	we'll	talk	more about	how	to	give	feedback	well.
My	reports	would	gladly	work	for	me	again. One	of	the	truest	indicators	of	the strength	of	your	relationships	is	whether	your	reports	would	want	you	as	their manager	in	the	future	if	they	were	given	the	choice.	When	you	see	a	manager taking	on	a	new	role	and	members	of	his	former	team	also	make	the	leap	with him,	that	says	a	lot	about	his	leadership. In	anonymous	surveys	to	track	team	health,	some	companies	explicitly	ask the	question,	'Would	you	work	for	your	manager	again?'	If	your	organization doesn't	do	this,	simply	reflecting	on	the	question	can	be	useful. For	each	report,	can	you	say	with	confidence	that	he	or	she	would	want	to	be on	your	team	again?	If	you	aren't	sure	that	the	answer	is	yes,	it's	probably	no (much	like	how	if	you	have	to	ask,	'Am	I	in	love?'	you're	probably	not). You	can	also	get	an	approximate	reading	by	asking	your	report,	'What	are	the qualities	of	a	perfect	manager	for	you?'	and	evaluating	how	you	compare	to	the description	you	get	back.	(Asking	directly,	'Would	you	work	for	me	again?' definitely	clears	the	bar	of	being	awkward	but	doesn't	set	you	up	well	to	receive completely	honest	responses.)

## STRIVE	TO	BE	HUMAN,	NOT	A	BOSS (p57)

I	once	shared	some	critical	feedback	with	one	of	my	reports	who	was	also	a manager.	Even	though	he	was	quite	talented,	I	gathered	from	his	team	that	he had	a	tendency	to	micromanage.	His	reports	wanted	to	see	him	work through them	rather	than	dictate	the	details	of	their	day-to-day. As	I	relayed	this,	I	saw	my	report	deflate.	I	imagined	him	kicking	himself	as his	mind	raced	through	all	the	interactions	he'd	had	in	the	past	few	weeks, wondering	what	specific	things	he'd	said	that	made	people	feel	this	way. I	could	understand	how	he	felt	because	I	had	gotten	the	exact	same	feedback before.	He	started	to	tell	me	what	he	thought	had	happened	and	what	he	might have	overlooked.	'I	feel	you,'	I	replied.	He	paused	like	I	had	said	something profound.	'You	do?'	he	asked.	'Yeah.	I	struggle	with	it	too,'	I	said. I	then	shared	an	example	from	just	the	day	before,	when	I	hadn't	done	a	good job	walking	the	line	between	giving	actionable	feedback	and	micromanaging	the details.	My	report	looked	relieved	by	the	end	of	my	story.	'Thank	you	for	that,' he	said.	'It	was	incredibly	helpful.'
His	reaction	surprised	me	because,	as	far	as	I	knew,	I	hadn't	said	anything useful.	We	hadn't	discussed	any	specific	tactics	to	address	the	problem.	All	I	did was	admit	that	I	had	basically	the	same	issue. But	the	learning	stuck	with	me	because	what	spoke	to	him	wasn't	the	fact	that I	had	rattled	off	a	bunch	of	amazing	advice.	It	was	that,	for	a	moment,	we related.	I	wasn't	some	authority	figure	but	rather	another	person	also	wading through	the	choppy	waters	of	management.	That	helped	us	connect	as individuals,	and	going	forward,	it	was	easier	for	us	to	discuss	pretty	much anything	else. The	way	to	earn	trust	with	your	reports	is	no	different	than	how	you	earn	it with	anyone	else,	and	requires	the	following	few	actions.

## Respect	and	Care	about	Your	Report (p58)

A	few	years	ago,	I	attended	a	management	workshop	led	by	a	senior	executive who	had	an	amazing	track	record	as	a	manager:	In	his	long	tenure,	nobody reporting	to	him	had	ever	quit	to	take	a	competing	offer.	What	was	his	secret?	'If you	take	nothing	else	away	from	today,'	he	told	us,	'remember	this: managing	is caring .' If	you	don't	truly	respect	or	care	about	your	report,	there	is	no	faking	it.	Trust me,	they	know.	None	of	us	are	such	brilliant	actors	that	we	can	control	the thousands	of	tiny	signals	we	are	subconsciously	sending	through	our	body language.	If	you	don't	believe	in	your	heart	of	hearts	that	someone	can	succeed, it	will	be	impossible	for	you	to	convey	your	strong	belief	in	them. There	are	a	few	nuances	here.	When	I	was	a	new	manager,	I	thought	that caring	about	my	report	meant	supporting	her	side	of	the	story	whenever	there was	a	disagreement.	When	others	gave	her	critical	feedback,	I	thought	it	was	my job	to	jump	to	her	defense	to	show	that	I	had	her	back. As	it	turns	out,	supporting	and	caring	for	someone	doesn't	mean	always agreeing	with	them	or	making	excuses	for	their	mistakes.	The	people	in	my	life who	have	been	most	invested	in	helping	me	succeed-folks	like	my	parents,	best friends,	and	managers-are	often	also	the	ones	who	most	readily	tell	me	why they	think	I'm	wrong.	(My	mom	likes	to	remind	me	that	despite	repeated tantrums	where	I	insisted	on	eating	ice	cream	for	breakfast	every	morning	as	a kid,	her	steadfast	refusal	is	the	reason	I	have	healthy	eating	habits	today.) What	caring	does	mean,	however,	is	doing	your	best	to	help	your	report	be successful	and	fulfilled	in	her	work.	It	means	taking	the	time	to	learn	what	she cares	about.	It	means	understanding	that	we	are	not	separate	people	at	work	and at	home-sometimes	the	personal	blends	into	the	professional,	and	that's	okay. Another	nuance	of	respect	is	that	it	must	be	unconditional	because	it's	about the	person	as	a	whole rather	than	what	she	does	for	you.	I've	never	encountered a	manager	who	wasn't	a	bastion	of	support	for	individuals	they	considered	top performers.	It's	easy	to	like	and	have	a	great	relationship	with	someone	who	is kicking	ass.	The	harder	test	is,	what	happens	when	she	struggles? If	your	report	feels	that	your	support	and	respect	are	based	on	her performance,	then	it	will	be	hard	for	her	to	be	honest	with	you	when	things	are rocky.	If,	on	the	other	hand,	she	feels	that	you	care	about	her no	matter	what ,	and nothing	can	change	that-not	even	failure-then	you	will	get	honesty	in	return. I	know	people	who	have	been	let	go	by	their	managers	and	still	make	time	to see	them	for	lunch	and	catch	up	on	life.	We	are	more	than	the	output	of	our	work on	a	particular	team	at	a	particular	moment	in	time,	and	true	respect	reflects	that.

## Invest	Time	to	Help	Your	Report (p59)

The	most	precious	resource	you	have	is	your	own	time	and	energy,	and	when you	spend	it	on	your	team,	it	goes	a	long	way	toward	building	healthy relationships.	This	is	why	one-on-one	meetings	('1:1s'	for	short)	are	such	an important	part	of	management.	I	recommend	no	less	than	a	weekly	1:1	with every	report	for	thirty	minutes,	and	more	time	if	needed. Even	if	you	sit	next	to	someone	and	see	him	every	day,	1:1s	let	you	discuss topics	that	may	never	come	up	otherwise-for	example,	what	motivates	him, what	his	long-term	career	aspirations	are,	how	he's	generally	feeling	about	his work,	and	more.	One-on-ones	should	be	focused	on	your	report	and	what	would help	him	be	more	successful,	not	on	you	and	what	you	need.	If	you're	looking for	a	status	update,	use	another	channel.	Rare	one-on-one	face	time	is	better spent	on	topics	that	are	harder	to	discuss	in	a	group	or	over	email. The	ideal	1:1	leaves	your	report	feeling	that	it	was	useful	for	her.	If	she	thinks that	the	conversation	was	pleasant	but	largely	unmemorable,	then	you	can	do better.	Remember	that	your	job	is	to	be	a	multiplier	for	your	people.	If	you	can remove	a	barrier,	provide	a	valuable	new	perspective,	or	increase	their confidence,	then	you're	enabling	them	to	be	more	successful. How	can	you	achieve	stellar	1:1s?	The	answer	is	preparation.	It's	rare	that	an amazing	conversation	springs	forth	when	nobody	has	a	plan	for	what	to	talk about.	I	tell	my	reports	that	I	want	our	time	together	to	be	valuable,	so	we	should focus	on	what's	most	important	for	them.	Here	are	some	ideas	to	get	started:
Discuss	top	priorities: What	are	the	one,	two,	or	three	most	critical outcomes	for	your	report	and	how	can	you	help	her	tackle	these	challenges?
Calibrate	what	'great'	looks	like: Do	you	have	a	shared	vision	of	what you're	working	toward?	Are	you	in	sync	about	goals	or	expectations?
Share	feedback: What	feedback	can	you	give	that	will	help	your	report, and	what	can	your	report	tell	you	that	will	make	you	more	effective	as	a manager?
Reflect	on	how	things	are	going: Once	in	a	while,	it's	useful	to	zoom	out and	talk	about	your	report's	general	state	of	mind-how	is	he	feeling	on	the whole?	What's	making	him	satisfied	or	dissatisfied?	Have	any	of	his	goals changed?	What	has	he	learned	recently	and	what	does	he	want	to	learn going	forward?
It's	helpful	for	both	manager	and	report	to	think	through	the	topics	they	want to	bring	to	the	1:1	conversation.	Every	morning,	I've	gotten	into	the	habit	of scanning	my	calendar	and	compiling	a	list	of	questions	for	each	person	I'm meeting	with. Why	questions?	Because	a	coach's	best	tool	for	understanding	what's	going on	is	to ask .	Don't	presume	you	know	what	the	problem	or	solution	is.	Too often,	attempts	to	'help'	aren't	actually	helpful,	even	when	served	with	the	best of	intentions.	We	all	remember	lectures	that	went	in	one	ear	and	out	the	other because	it	was	obvious	the	other	party	didn't	understand	our	real	problem,	or when	unasked-for	'help'	feels	indistinguishable	from	micromanaging	or meddling. Your	job	as	a	manager	isn't	to	dole	out	advice	or	'save	the	day'-it's	to empower	your	report	to	find	the	answer	herself.	She	has	more	context	than	you on	the	problems	she's	dealing	with,	so	she's	in	the	best	position	to	uncover	the solution.	Let	her	lead	the	1:1	while	you	listen	and	probe. Here	are	some	of	my	favorite	questions	to	get	the	conversation	moving:
Identify: These	questions	focus	on	what	really	matters	for	your	report	and what	topics	are	worth	spending	more	time	on.

## What's	top	of	mind	for	you	right	now? (p60)

What	priorities	are	you	thinking	about	this	week?
Understand: Once	you've	identified	a	topic	to	discuss,	these	next	questions get	at	the	root	of	the	problem	and	what	can	be	done	about	it.
What	does	your	ideal	outcome	look	like? What's	hard	for	you	in	getting	to	that	outcome? What	do	you	really	care	about? What	do	you	think	is	the	best	course	of	action? What's	the	worst-case	scenario	you're	worried	about?
Support: These	questions	zero	in	on	how	you	can	be	of	greatest	service	to your	report.
How	can	I	help	you? What	can	I	do	to	make	you	more	successful? What	was	the	most	useful	part	of	our	conversation	today?

## Be	Honest	and	Transparent	about	Your	Report's	Performance (p61)

As	a	manager,	your	perspective	on	how	your	report	is	doing	carries	far	more weight	than	his	perspective	on	how	you	are	doing.	After	all,	you're	the	one	who determines	what	he	works	on	and	whether	he	should	get	a	promotion	or	be	fired. This	power	imbalance	means	that	the	responsibility	falls	to	you	to	be	honest and	transparent	when	it	comes	to	how	you	are	evaluating	performance. Your	report	should	have	a	clear	sense	at	all	times	of	what	your	expectations are	and	where	he	stands.	If	he	is	often	wondering, What	does	my	manager	think of	me? then	you	need	to	dial	up	your	level	of	feedback.	Don't	assume	he	can read	between	the	lines	or	that	no	news	is	good	news.	If	you	think	he	is	the epitome	of	awesome,	tell	him.	If	you	don't	think	he	is	operating	at	the	level you'd	like	to	see,	he	should	know	that,	too,	and	precisely	why	you	feel	that	way. For	specifics	on	how	to	master	the	art	of	giving	feedback,	see	the	next	chapter.

## Admit	Your	Own	Mistakes	and	Growth	Areas (p62)

No	one	is	perfect,	and	managers	are	no	exception.	You	will	make	mistakes.	You will	let	people	down.	You	will	have	moments	where	you	say	the	wrong	thing	and make	the	situation	worse	rather	than	better.	When	that	happens,	don't	fall	into the	trap	of	thinking	that	because	you're	the	boss,	you	can't	admit	your shortcomings	or	weaknesses.	Instead,	apologize.	Admit	that	you	screwed	up,	and take	meaningful	action	to	do	better	in	the	future. A	while	ago,	a	well-respected	manager	I	worked	with	sent	a	broadly distributed	note	that	implied	a	particular	team	wasn't	working	fast	enough.	The frustration	in	his	tone	was	obvious,	and	because	of	his	seniority,	the	note	had	a demoralizing	effect.	Someone	informed	him	in	private	that	he	was	missing important	context	on	how	the	team	was	operating,	and	that	the	tone	of	his	note wasn't	helping.	Immediately,	he	followed	up	with	a	sincere	apology. People	will	forget	what	you	said,	people	will	forget	what	you	did,	but	people will	never	forget	how	you	made	them	feel, goes	the	popular	saying.	I've	forgotten the	specifics	of	that	email,	but	I	still	remember	the	difference	that	apology	made. When	we	are	going	through	tough	times,	the	thing	that's	often	the	most helpful	isn't	advice	or	answers	but	empathy.	This	wasn't	intuitive	to	me	at	first because	I	assumed	that	leaders	always	showed	up	with	confidence	and	knowhow.	I	figured	I	should	act	like	I	knew	what	to	do	in	front	of	my	reports,	even when	I	didn't	feel	that	way. Brené	Brown,	research	expert	in	courage,	shame,	and	empathy,	begs	to	differ. She	proposes	that	there	is	enormous	power	in	expressing	vulnerability: 'Vulnerability	sounds	like	truth	and	feels	like	courage.	Truth	and	courage	aren't always	comfortable,	but	they're	never	weakness.' These	days,	I	try	to	admit	when	I	don't	have	the	answers	or	when	I'm working	through	my	own	personal	challenges.	I'll	say	things	like	the	following:
'I	don't	know	the	answer.	What	do	you	think?'
'I	want	to	come	clean	and	apologize	for	what	I	did/said	the	other	day.	.	.	.'
'One	of	my	personal	growth	areas	this	half	is	.	.	.'
'I'm	afraid	I	don't	know	enough	to	help	you	with	that	problem.	Here's someone	you	should	talk	to	instead.	.	.	.'
I've	found	that	by	showing	up	authentically,	with	my	fears,	mistakes,	and uncertainties	out	in	the	open	rather	than	swept	under	the	rug,	I've	been	able	to build	better	relationships	with	my	reports.

## HELP	PEOPLE	PLAY	TO	THEIR	STRENGTHS (p63)

A	few	years	ago,	I	found	myself	having	a	difficult	conversation	with	my manager	Chris	about	the	design	of	a	new	product	we	were	building.	He	had repeatedly	given	me	feedback	that	what	he'd	seen	in	the	past	few	reviews	felt too	complicated. He	was	right.	My	diagnosis	was	that	we	were	simultaneously	moving	too quickly	and	trying	to	add	too	many	bells	and	whistles.	The	result	was	that	the entire	experience	felt	confusing.	However,	I	was	struggling	to	get	everyone aligned	on	cutting	features	and	pushing	back	our	release	date. I	remember	staring	at	a	blank	spot	on	the	wall,	feeling	dejected.	Chris	was quiet	for	a	moment,	and	then	said:	'Remember	that	you	have	good	values.' To	this	day,	it's	hard	to	describe	the	power	those	simple	words	had.	He	could have	said	dozens	of	other	things	to	make	me	feel	better -' You'll	find	a	way through	this,'	'It's	not	as	bad	as	you	think,'	or	'Here	are	some	things	to	try.' But	what	he	said	instead	was	specific	to me ,	and	something	I	felt	he	genuinely believed.	It	didn't	mean	my	opinions	were	always	right,	but	his	vote	of confidence	that	they	came	from	a	principled	place	restored	some	of	the confidence	I	had	lost.	By	recognizing	a	strength	of	mine,	Chris	gave	me	a renewed	sense	of	motivation. In	the	years	since,	I've	called	to	mind	the	phrase you	have	good	values many, many	times-when	I	wondered	if	I	should	share	a	contrarian	opinion,	when	I was	facing	strong	pushback	on	a	proposal,	when	I	debated	taking	on	a	new challenge. We	humans	are	wired	to	see	the	bad	more	clearly	than	the	good.	It's	an evolutionary	advantage,	after	all.	Imagine	you	are	an	ancient	cave	dweller surveying	the	landscape:	Would	you	rather	be	better	at	noticing	what's	fine	and normal-deer	grazing,	tree	branches	swaying,	the	sun	shining-or	at	spotting	the hungry	lion	in	the	shadows? Whenever	I	used	to	read	my	manager's	feedback,	I'd	give	the	strengths	and 'going	well'	section	a	passing	glance	and	focus	primarily	on	the	'areas	for improvement.'	If	I	had	a	highly	productive	day	but	I	bombed	one	meeting,	guess what	would	be	on	my	mind	as	I	was	driving	home? As	a	manager,	my	attention	is	similarly	drawn	toward	the	problem	spots.	I'm usually	focused	on	the	designs	that	aren't	quite	there,	the	projects	that	are slipping	behind	schedule,	or	the	teams	that	have	hiring	needs.	Whenever	I'm talking	with	my	reports,	it's	easy	to	spend	all	our	time	on	the	things	that	need improvement. And	yet,	all	of	us	likely	remember	moments	when	a	kind	word	about	our unique	strengths	made	us	swell	with	pride	and	gave	us	more	fuel	to	achieve	our goals. Recognition	for	hard	work,	valuable	skills,	helpful	advice,	or	good	values	can be	hugely	motivating	if	it	feels	genuine	and	specific.	Furthermore,	people	are more	likely	to	succeed	when	using	their	strengths-a	message	explored	in	depth by	Marcus	Buckingham	and	Donald	Clifton	in Now,	Discover	Your	Strengths and	Tom	Rath	in StrengthsFinder	2.0 . For	example,	if	someone	on	your	team	loves	ramping	up	new	hires	and	is good	at	it,	find	opportunities	for	her	to	do	more	in	that	vein-maybe	mentor	an intern	or	become	an	informal	coach	to	others.	If	you	have	a	community	builder who	is	already	naturally	organizing	team	lunches,	ask	him	if	he'd	be	interested in	running	certain	meetings. In	each	case,	you're	giving	someone	an	opportunity	to	grow	in	a	way	that speaks	to	their	interests	and	strengths.	'There	is	one	quality	that	sets	truly	great managers	apart	from	the	rest:	they	discover	what	is	unique	about	each	person and	then	capitalize	on	it,'	says	Buckingham,	the	renowned	management consultant	who	has	studied	hundreds	of	organizations	and	leaders.	'The	job	of	a manager	.	.	.	is	to	turn	one	person's	particular	talent	into	performance.' If	you	take	this	principle	of	managing	to	strengths	one	step	further,	you'll	find that	it	also	applies	to	teams. If	you	have	five	people	on	your	team,	four	of	whom	are	doing	well	and	one who	isn't,	you	may	feel	like	you	should	focus	most	of	your	time	and	energy	on the	struggling	report	because	you	want	to	'fix'	the	problem.	But	in	the	same way	that	individuals	should	play	to	their	strengths,	so	should	you	pay	attention	to your	team's	top	talent-the	people	who	are	doing	well	and	could	be	doing	even better.	Don't	let	the	worst	performers	dominate	your	time-try	to	diagnose, address,	and	resolve	their	issues	as	swiftly	as	you	can. This	is	counterintuitive	because	your	strongest	reports	aren't	likely	asking	for your	help.	Going	back	to	the	lemonade	stand	example	from	Chapter	One,	if	Toby is	selling	thirty	cups	of	lemonade	an	hour	and	Henry	is	selling	only	ten	cups,	you might	feel	compelled	to	spend	a	majority	of	your	time	with	Henry	to	improve	his output.	But	if	coaching	Toby	gets	him	to	even	a	10	percent	improvement,	he'll
be	selling	an	extra	three	cups.	You'd	have	to	help	Henry	do	33	percent	better	to get	the	same	result,	which	will	probably	be	much	harder	to	achieve. Good	CEOs	know	that	they	should	double	down	on	the	projects	that	are working	and	put	more	people,	resources,	and	attention	on	those	rather	than	get every	single	project	to	the	point	of	'not	failing.'	Similarly,	good	investors	know that	helping	to	identify	and	grow	a	single	start-up	into	the	next	billion-dollar company	is	worth	dozens	of	other	investments	that	lose	money.	The	rising	stars on	your	team	may	not	be	clamoring	for	your	attention,	but	if	you	help	them	to dream	bigger	and	become	more	capable	leaders,	you'll	be	amazed	at	how	much more	your	team	can	do	as	a	whole.

## THE	ONE	THING	YOU	SHOULDN'T	TOLERATE	ON	YOUR TEAM (p65)

There	is	a	certain	archetype	of	the	brilliant	lone	wolf	who,	though	he	regularly puts	others	down,	manages	to	come	out	the	hero	because	he	is	simply	heads	and tails	more	capable	than	anyone	else.	It's	a	romantic	notion	in	popular	mediaSherlock	Holmes,	Miranda	Priestly,	Tony	Stark-but	in	real	life,	these	people are	not	who	you	want	on	your	team	no	matter	how	talented	they	are.	Instead	of	a multiplier	effect,	you	get	a	divider	effect:	the	presence	of	this	person	makes	the rest	of	your	team	less	effective. Stanford	professor	Robert	I.	Sutton	described	this	phenomenon	in	his	now famous	book The	No	Asshole	Rule .	He	defines	an	asshole	as	someone	who makes	other	people	feel	worse	about	themselves	or	who	specifically	targets people	less	powerful	than	him	or	her. I	once	worked	with	a	particular	individual	who	was	creative	and	prolific	but who	was	so	wrapped	up	in	his	own	opinions	that	if	you	disagreed	with	him	and you	were	less	senior,	he'd	dismiss	you	as	being	terrible	at	your	job.	While	he could	have	been	a	source	of	inspiration	to	others,	his	teammates	went	out	of	their way	to	avoid	him	because,	as	one	person	put	it	to	me	bluntly,	'He	makes	you feel	like	an	idiot.'	A	huge	amount	of	time	was	spent	dealing	with	the	frayed relationships	in	his	wake. With	the	benefit	of	hindsight,	it's	easy	to	recognize	the	aura	of	toxicity	that this	person	created.	But	as	an	inexperienced	manager,	I	didn't	always	see	it clearly. He	does	a	lot	of	impressive	work ,	I	thought	to	myself. What	I	later	realized	is	that	the	team	actually	becomes better	off when brilliant	assholes	leave.	Yes,	you	lose	out	on	their	individual	contributions,	but the	fog	lifts	for	everyone	else.	They	can	let	their	guard	down.	Collaboration becomes	more	honest	and	productive,	so	the	work	of	the	team	as	a	whole improves. The	second	thing	I	learned	is	that	it	is	possible	to	find	people	who	are	just	as talented and who	are	humble	and	kind.	It's	not	an	either-or,	as	the	movies	would have	you	believe.	You	can	and	should	hold	the	bar	high	for	collaboration.	These people	are	out	there.	Don't	compromise	your	values	for	someone	who	thinks	it's okay	to	bully	others.	You	and	your	team	deserve	better. The	third	lesson	is	that	assholes	can	change	if	the	culture	you	set	is	clear	that it	won't	tolerate	them.	You'll	learn	more	about	establishing	a	healthy	team culture	in	Chapter	Ten.

## YOU	DON'T	ALWAYS	HAVE	TO	MAKE	IT	WORK (p66)

When	I	first	started	managing,	I	made	the	mistake	of	thinking	my	job	was	to always	'make	it	work.'	I	reasoned	that	if	two	smart,	well-intentioned	individuals couldn't	agree,	then	surely	it	must	be	the	result	of	some	misunderstanding.	My job,	therefore,	was	to	shed	clarity	on	the	matter	and	get	everyone	to	shake	hands and	sing	campfire	songs	together	again. When	one	of	my	reports	would	bring	up	a	complaint	about	someone	else,	say, a	coworker	who	never	seemed	to	listen	to	his	suggestions,	I'd	try	to	help	him	see the	other	sidemaybe	she	doesn't	know	you	feel	this	way.	Maybe	you're	missing context.	Have	you	tried	talking	to	her? I'd	then	seek	out	the	other	party	and	do	the	same:	explain	the	issue, understand	her	perspective,	and	encourage	a	get-together	to	negotiate	peace.	The entire	time,	I'd	be	thinking, Of	course	there	is	a	productive	way	out	of	this . I	didn't	always	succeed.	Once,	another	manager	came	to	me	and	explained that	he	couldn't	work	productively	with	one	of	my	reports.	I	pushed	back,	sure that	whatever	they	disagreed	about	could	be	resolved.	I	spent	my	next	week going	back	and	forth	between	the	two	of	them.	After	my	fourth	meeting	with	the other	manager,	he	said	to	me	in	exasperation,	'You're	trying	to	save	a	situation that	isn't	worth	your	time,	my	time,	or	your	report's	time	to	save.'	He	was	right. The	two	of	them	had	very	different	values	and	working	styles,	and	they'd	both be	happier	if	they	weren't	on	the	same	project. Over	the	years,	I've	also	had	some	wonderful	team	members	leave	because they	were	looking	for	something	different.	At	first,	it	was	hard	not	to	take	each departure	as	a	personal	failure.	I	couldn't	reconcile	how	someone	I	liked	so much	could	not	work	out	with	a	team	I	cared	so	much	about.	It	felt	like	LEGO pieces	not	fitting	together,	like	peas	and	carrots	refusing	to	cooperate.	Surely	I had	done	something	wrong! But,	slowly,	my	perspective	changed.	I	now	understand	that	personal	and organizational	values	play	a	huge	role	in	whether	someone	will	be	happy	on	a given	team. Call	it	what	you	want-fit,	motivation,	chemistry-but	the	things	a	person cares	about	must	also	be	what	the	team	(and	company)	cares	about. If	not,	then	that	person	might	find	themselves	in	frequent	misalignment	with what	they	want	for	their	own	career. If	the	fit	just	isn't	right	on	a	particular	team,	sometimes	a	move	within	the same	organization	solves	the	issue-a	new	environment	plus	a	different	problem to	noodle	on	is	often	exactly	what's	needed.	If	that	doesn't	work,	then	perhaps the	fit	is	with	the	company	as	a	whole,	in	which	case	parting	ways	may	be	the best	outcome	for	everyone. Dating	is	a	good	analogy.	You	can	imagine	a	person	who	is	a	catch	by	all accounts-kind,	responsible,	interesting,	in	possession	of	a	winning	smile-but with	whom	you'd	struggle	to	be	in	a	relationship.	Maybe	they're	a	champion skydiver	and	you	have	a	fear	of	heights.	Maybe	they	want	a	van	full	of	kids	and you	don't	see	that	in	your	future.	Maybe	they're	seeking	to	grow	roots	but	your eyes	are	still	dreamy	with	wanderlust.	That's	fine.	They	just	weren't	right	for you. These	days,	I	spend	a	lot	of	time	trying	to	understand	what	potential candidates	value,	as	well	as	being	transparent	about	what	my	company	and	I value.	If	my	descriptions	have	them	nodding	along	like	it's	music	to	their	ears, then	they're	going	to	love	this	job.	If	not,	that's	okay	too.	Even	if	they	have	the exact	skills	that	I'm	looking	for,	it's	better	not	to	try	to	fit	a	round	peg	into	a square	hole.	Each	of	us	ought	to	be	working	in	an	environment	that	we	love	with the	people	who	share	our	passions.	And	if	along	the	way	we	realize	that	we're meant	to	do	something	else,	let's	celebrate	that	instead	of	seeing	it	as	a	failure.

## MAKE	PEOPLE	MOVES	QUICKLY (p67)

When	I	first	started	managing,	I	considered	my	role	above	all	to	be	a	champion for	my	team.	It	was	my	job	to	support	them,	defend	them,	and	listen	to	them.	If	a report	was	struggling	to	do	quality	work,	not	being	productive,	or	decreasing team	morale,	I'd	think	to	myself, If	I	don't	step	up	and	show	some	empathy,	who else	will? Nobody.	As	their	manager,	this	was	my	job.	And	everyone	deserves	a	second chance. Unfortunately,	80	percent	of	the	time,	that	effort-extra	1:1s,	help	on projects,	conversations	with	peers,	pep	talks-ultimately	proved	futile. We've	already	discussed	the	main	reasons	why	someone	might	not	be	doing great	work:	they	aren't	aware	of	what	'great'	looks	like,	their	aspirations	aren't	a fit	with	what	the	role	needs,	they	don't	feel	appreciated,	they	lack	the	skills,	or they	bring	others	down. Issues	of	awareness	or	lack	of	appreciation	can	usually	be	addressed	with	a series	of	honest	conversations.	But	if	what	motivates	a	person	simply	doesn't jibe	with	the	values	of	the	team,	then	a	bunch	of	pep	talks	may	relieve	short-term symptoms,	but	they	don't	provide	a	cure. For	example,	one	of	my	reports-we'll	call	him	Fred-was	passionate	about designing	for	cutting-edge	technologies.	His	work	would	often	incorporate inventive	new	interactions	that	were	a	delight	to	experience	on	state-of-the-art phones. But	our	team	designs	products	used	by	billions	of	people	all	over	the	world, and	the	vast	majority	do	not	have	the	latest	technology.	They	may	be	on	phones with	poor	network	connections	or	low	storage	space.	Because	of	this,	our	team prioritizes	work	that	is	valuable	to	the	greatest	number	of	people,	which	means designing	within	many	constraints.	This	mismatch	of	values	meant	that	Fred grew	frustrated	whenever	his	bold,	blue-sky	concepts	were	rejected	in	favor	of ideas	that	were	more	practical. Similarly,	if	your	report	has	a	fundamental	skills	gap	that	is	affecting	her ability	to	do	the	job	well,	it's	unreasonable	to	expect	that	even	the	best	coaching will	turn	things	around	within	a	few	months.	A	report	of	mine	whom	we'll	call Sarah	had	a	knack	for	putting	out	thoughtful	designs	but	struggled	to	stay organized.	She	operated	best	in	highly	structured	environments	that	offered strong	project	management	support;	however,	at	our	organization,	we	take	a bottom-up	approach	where	all	employees	are	expected	to	manage	their	own	time effectively.	In	that	context,	Sarah	would	often	miss	deadlines	or	forget	about assignments	she'd	agreed	to	take	on. As	a	new	manager,	I'd	pour	a	ton	of	energy-sometimes	even	50	percent	of my	week-into	the	Freds	and	Sarahs	of	the	team.	I'd	have	long	conversations with	them,	work	together	to	make	changes,	hope	that	things	would	get	better,
and	then	see	the	same	patterns	resurface.	It	was	incredibly	draining.	But	I thought	this	was	how	it	had	to	be	for	me	to	show	my	care	as	a	manager. The	turning	point	was	when	I	realized	that	this	cycle	wasn't	just	hard	for	me, it	was	even	worse	for	my	report.	The	person	I	was	trying	to	help	would	feel stressed	out	because	he	knew	he	wasn't	doing	well,	and	my	'help'	felt	like	the Eye	of	Sauron	watching	his	every	move.	Meanwhile,	the	rest	of	my	team	would wait	impatiently	for	things	to	get	better	because	they	also	felt	the	effects	of	a struggling	teammate. At	the	end	of	the	day,	if	you	don't	believe	someone	is	set	up	to	succeed	in	his current	role,	the	kindest	thing	you	can	do	is	to	be	honest	with	him	and	support him	in	moving	on.	Former	General	Electric	CEO	Jack	Welch	argues	that protecting	low	performers	only	increases	the	damage	when,	inevitably,	a manager	is	forced	to	let	them	go.	'What	I	think	is	brutal	and	'false	kindness'	is keeping	people	around	who	aren't	going	to	grow	and	prosper.	There's	no	cruelty like	waiting	and	telling	people	late	in	their	careers	that	they	don't	belong.' You	have	two	options	at	this	point:	help	someone	find	a	new	role	in	your organization	or	let	him	or	her	go. The	first	option	should	always	be	considered	because	if	there	is	a	better	role out	there	that's	more	aligned	with	your	report's	interests	and	skills,	then	that's	a great	outcome	for	both	the	person	and	your	company.	Remember	Fred,	who loved	working	on	innovative	new	designs?	He	ended	up	joining	another	team specifically	focused	on	emerging	technologies,	and	he	thrived	in	his	new	role. Tread	carefully,	though.	Because	the	idea	of	firing	someone	feels	so unpleasant,	managers	may	hesitate	to	let	a	report	go	even	when	it's	the	best	thing for	that	person	or	the	organization.	Avoid	shuffling	around	people	who	lack	the right	skills	or	who	exhibit	toxic	behavior. A	good	question	to	ask	is: If	this	person	were	not	already	at	the	organization, would	I	recommend	that	another	team	hire	him	or	her	knowing	what	I	know? Sarah,	the	employee	who	struggled	with	operating	independently,	was	not somebody	who	I	could	see	being	successful	anywhere	within	the	company. When	you	decide	to	let	someone	go,	do	it	respectfully	and	directly.	Don't open	it	up	to	discussion	(it	isn't	one),	and	don't	regard	it	as	a	failure	on	the	part of	your	report.	(As	Netflix's	former	chief	talent	officer,	Patty	McCord,	reflects, 'Why	do	we	call	it	'getting	fired'?	Are	we	shooting	people?') Just	because	your	report	didn't	work	out	on	your	team	doesn't	mean	it's	on him-in	fact,	I'm	often	reminded	of	the	wise	words	of	my	friend	Robyn	Morris: 'Perhaps	it's you who	shouldn't	be	his	manager,	not	the	other	way	around.'
Perhaps	you	made	the	call	to	hire	him	when	his	skills	weren't	what	the	team needed.	Or	perhaps	you	put	him	on	projects	that	weren't	a	good	match.	Caring about	people	means	owning	that	your	relationship	is	a	two-way	street. Firing	someone	can	be	emotional	and	challenging	not	just	for	the	person being	fired	but	also	for	you	and	the	team.	Be	compassionate	in	examining	the past,	but	focus	on	the	future	and	don't	prolong	the	breakup.	Help	your	report	get on	the	best	possible	path	toward	the	next	chapter,	and	use	the	experience	to become	a	better	manager. The	good	news	is	that	letting	people	go	is	an	extreme	situation.	More commonly,	the	right	coaching	can	help	your	reports	understand	what	to	aspire	to, how	to	overcome	the	habits	that	are	holding	them	back,	and	how	to	grow	their impact. Great	managers	are	excellent	coaches,	and	the	secret	sauce	to	coaching	is	the topic	of	our	next	chapter-giving	effective	feedback.

## Chapter	Four (p71)


## The	Art	of	Feedback (p71)


## AVOID (p72)


## ASPIRE (p72)

The	worst	feedback	I ever	got	came	in	an	email	from	a	former	intern,	Drew Hamlin.	He	regularly	wrote	to	our	design	team	during	the	school	year	with	his observations	about	our	work.	In	one	message,	he	pointed	out	a	particular misalignment	of	elements	on	the	screen,	writing,	'Did	you	mean	to	make	this	so terrible?' We	knew	he	asked	this	in	earnestness,	not	malice,	but	it	was	definitely	lesson one	in	how not to	give	feedback.	Fortunately,	we	didn't	read	too	much	into	his words.	Impressed	by	his	passion	and	proactivity,	we	hired	him	after	he graduated.	A	few	years	later,	he	became	a	beloved	manager.	In	a	funny	twist	of fate,	Drew	was	one	of	the	primary	architects	of	our	current	critique	practice.	To this	day,	we	continue	to	poke	fun	at	him	for	lobbing	'the	world's	worst	critique.' The	best	feedback	I	ever	got	came	from	my	former	report	Robyn.	Once,	when I	asked	him	what	I	could	be	doing	better,	he	took	a	deep	breath	and	said,	'Julie, sometimes	I	get	the	feeling	that	when	I'm	doing	well,	you're	on	my	side	and	the two	of	us	are	great.	But	when	I'm	not	doing	as	well,	our	relationship	suffers,	and I	don't	feel	that	you	trust	me	as	much.'	He	proceeded	to	share	a	few	examples	of things	I	had	said	that	made	him	feel	this	way,	delivered	with	kindness	and honesty.	This	single	piece	of	feedback	transformed	my	entire	perspective	on management. Unfortunately,	most	people	struggle	with	giving	feedback.	Sometimes,	we don't	feel	like	we	have	anything	useful	to	say.	Or	if	we	do	have	a	critical thought,	we	stay	silent	because	we	worry	about	hurting	others'	feelings.	When something	isn't	broken,	we	accept	that	it's	good	enough,	so	why	say	more?	And when	we	do	give	feedback,	we	put	ourselves	at	risk	because	it	might	be perceived	as	'too	vague	to	be	helpful'	or	'too	emotionally	charged	to	be effective.'	Given	all	this,	it's	no	wonder	that	new	managers	often	find	this	the most	challenging	part	of	the	job. For	a	leader,	giving	feedback-both	when	things	are	going	well	and	when they	aren't-is	one	of	the	most	fundamental	aspects	of	the	job.	Mastering	this skill	means	that	you	can	knock	down	two	of	the	biggest	barriers	preventing	your reports	from	doing	great	work-unclear	expectations	and	inadequate	skills-so that	they	know	exactly	where	to	aim	and	how	to	hit	the	target.

## WHAT	DOES	GREAT	FEEDBACK	LOOK	LIKE? (p74)

Think	of	the	best	feedback	you've	ever	received.	Why	was	it	so	meaningful	to you? I'm	willing	to	bet	that	the	reason	you	remember	it	is	because the	feedback inspired	you	to	change	your	behavior,	which	resulted	in	your	life	getting	better . Feedback,	at	its	best,	transforms	people	in	ways	they're	proud	of.	There's	no question	that	I'm	a	better	manager	today	because	of	that	eye-opening conversation	with	Robyn. So	what	constitutes	'feedback'?	Early	in	my	career,	I	defined	it	as 'suggestions	for	improvement.'	The	canonical	example	in	my	head	was	design critique.	I	figured	that	giving	feedback	meant	identifying	a	problem	and	coming up	with	some	possible	solutions. That	turned	out	to	be	quite	a	narrow	definition.	There's	a	whole	swath	of things	beyond	'suggestions	for	improvement'	that	can	inspire	someone	to	take positive	action.	For	one,	feedback	doesn't	have	to	be	critical.	Praise	is	often more	motivating	than	criticism.	And	for	another,	you	don't	always	have	to	start with	a	problem. Below,	you'll	find	the	four	most	common	ways	to	inspire	a	change	in behavior.
Set	Clear	Expectations	at	the	Beginning Imagine	that	you	decide	to	hire	a	trainer	to	improve	your	workouts.	Does	she immediately	ask	you	to	do	some	push-ups	before	giving	you	any	pointers? No.	The	first	thing	she'll	do	after	introductions	is	sit	down	with	you	to discuss	your	goals.	Then,	she'll	tell	you	what	you	should	expect	from	training and	how	you	can	make	the	most	of	it.	Though	her	advice	won't	yet	be specifically	tailored	to	you,	it's	what	she	thinks	you	need	to	know	given	her experience	training	others. It	may	seem	counterintuitive,	but	the	feedback	process	should	begin	before any	work	does.	At	that	point,	you	should	agree	on	what	success	looks	likewhether	for	a	given	project	or	for	a	given	time	period-get	ahead	of	any expected	issues,	and	lay	the	foundation	for	productive	feedback	sessions	in	the future.	It's	like	starting	a	journey	with	a	well-marked	map	versus	blindly walking	a	few	miles	and	then	asking	if	you're	on	track. During	this	phase,	make	sure	you	address	the	following:
What	a	great	job	looks	like	for	your	report,	compared	to	a	mediocre	or	bad job
What	advice	you	have	to	help	your	report	get	started	on	the	right	foot
Common	pitfalls	your	report	should	avoid
In	your	first	three	months	on	the	job,	I	expect	that	you'll	build	good	relationships	with	your team,	be	able	to	ramp	up	on	a	small-scale	'starter'	project,	and	then	share	your	first design	iteration	for	review.	I	don't	expect	that	you'll	get	the	green	light	on	it	right	away,	but if	you	do,	that	would	be	knocking	it	out	of	the	park.
Here's	what	success	looks	like	for	the	next	meeting	you	run:	the	different	options	are	framed clearly,	everyone	feels	like	their	point	of	view	is	well	represented,	and	a	decision	is	made.

## Give	Task-Specific	Feedback	as	Frequently	as	You	Can (p75)

As	the	name	'task-specific'	implies,	you	provide	this	kind	of	feedback	about something	that	someone	did	after	the	fact.	For	example,	after	your	report presents	an	analysis,	tell	her	what	you	thought	she	did	well	and	what	could	go better	in	the	future.	Be	as	precise	and	as	detailed	as	you	can. This	is	the	easiest	type	of	feedback	to	give	because	it's	focused	on	the what rather	than	the who ,	so	it	feels	less	personal.	If	you	find	yourself	struggling	to get	into	the	habit	of	giving	feedback,	start	with	this	category. Task-specific	feedback	is	most	effective	when	the	action	performed	is	still fresh	in	your	report's	memory,	so	share	it	as	soon	as	you	can.	Unless	the	task	is significant,	like	a	high-stakes	presentation,	dropping	a	note	via	email	or	chat within	the	day	can	work	just	as	well	as	giving	the	feedback	face-to-face. At	its	best,	task-specific	feedback	becomes	a	lightweight,	habitual	part	of your	day,	and	your	reports	benefit	from	getting	small	doses	of	coaching	in everything	you	see	them	do.
That	research	report	you	shared	yesterday	was	excellent.	The	way	you succinctly	summarized	the	most	important	findings	at	the	top	made	it easy	to	process.	The	particular	insight	about	X	was	really	useful.
Quick	note	about	the	presentation	you	gave	this	morning:	I	noticed	you went	straight	to	the	proposal	without	explaining	how	you	got	there. This	made	it	hard	to	assess	why	it	was	the	best	path.	Next	time,	try
spending	a	few	minutes	walking	through	your	process	and	what alternatives	you	considered.

## Share	Behavioral	Feedback	Thoughtfully	and	Regularly (p76)

When	you	zoom	out	and	look	at	many	examples	of	task-specific	feedback	for	a report,	what	themes	emerge?	Does	he	make	decisions	quickly	or	slowly?	Is	he	a process	wizard	or	an	unconventional	thinker?	Does	he	gravitate	toward pragmatic	or	idealistic	solutions? Asking	this	question	about	themes	helps	you	reflect	on	your	report's	unique strengths	or	areas	of	development	as	shown	in	his	patterns	of	behavior. Behavioral	feedback	is	useful	because	it	provides	a	level	of	personalization and	depth	that	is	missing	from	task-specific	feedback.	By	connecting	the	dots across	multiple	examples,	you	can	help	people	understand	how	their	unique interests,	personalities,	and	habits	affect	their	ability	to	have	impact. When	you	give	behavioral	feedback,	you	are	making	a	statement	about	how you	perceive	that	person,	so	your	words	need	to	be	thoughtfully	considered	and supported	with	specific	examples	to	explain	why	you	feel	that	way.	It's	best discussed	in	person	so	the	receiver	can	ask	questions	and	engage	in	a	back-andforth	with	you. Behavioral	feedback	helps	people	understand	the	reality	of	how	others	see them,	which	may	be	different	than	how	they	see	themselves.	It	can	feel	difficult to	talk	about	because	it is so	personal-a	friend	of	mine	likens	it	to	'therapy sessions'-but	at	its	best,	you	help	your	reports	walk	away	with	a	deeper understanding	of	themselves	and	how	they	can	be	more	effective.
When	people	ask	you	questions	about	your	work,	your	tone	is	often defensive.	For	example,	when	Sally	left	a	comment	on	your	code,	you replied	with	'just	trust	me.'	This	disregarded	the	substance	of	her feedback	and	made	you	appear	less	trustworthy.
Your	recruiting	skills	are	top-notch.	Candidates	often	say	they	leave	a conversation	with	you	feeling	more	inspired	than	when	they	began.	You also	have	a	keen	sense	for	suggesting	the	right	people	for	the	right roles.	For	example,	you	identified	John	for	Project	X	a	year	ago,	and now	he's	thriving.
Collect	360-Degree	Feedback	for	Maximum	Objectivity
Three-hundred-and-sixty-degree	feedback	is	feedback	aggregated	from	multiple perspectives,	which	means	it	tends	to	be	a	more	complete	and	objective	view	of how	someone	is	doing.	For	example,	if	your	report	led	a	brainstorming	session, instead	of	sending	just your task-specific	feedback,	you	might	collect	and	share what	the	rest	of	the	room	thought	as	well.	Or	if	it's	time	for	your	report's	annual performance	review,	instead	of	relying	on	just	your	own	observations,	getting behavioral	feedback	from	the	handful	of	colleagues	she	works	closest	with	will result	in	better	insights. Many	companies	run	a	360-feedback	process	once	or	twice	a	year.	If	it's	not formally	done,	you	can	gather	the	feedback	yourself.	Every	quarter,	for	each report,	I	send	a	short	email	to	a	handful	of	his	or	her	closest	collaborators	asking: a)	What	is	X	doing	especially	well	that	X	should	do	more	of?,	and	b)	What should	X	change	or	stop	doing? The	thoroughness	of	360-degree	feedback	means	that	it	takes	more	time	to gather,	so	it's	not	practical	to	do	more	than	a	handful	of	times	a	year.	However, it's	particularly	useful	when	you	lack	deep	context	on	your	report's	day-to-day. Because	it's	so	comprehensive,	you	should	set	up	a	meeting	with	your	report	to discuss	the	feedback	in	person,	as	well	as	document	the	learnings	in	writing	so that	both	of	you	can	refer	to	it	in	the	future. Your	peers	give	you	a	lot	of	props	for	how	you	managed	the	budget crisis.	This	was	important	and	difficult	work,	and	your	calm	demeanor, excellent	listening	skills,	and	rational	arguments	helped	the	team	get	to a	good	outcome. One	of	the	consistent	themes	from	your	360-feedback	is	that	your	plans need	more	rigor.	An	example	is	how	you	left	out	the	edge	case	of	senior discounts	in	your	pricing	proposal,	which	resulted	in	incorrect projections.	This	pattern	of	small	errors	across	your	work	is	starting	to undermine	your	credibility.

## EVERY	MAJOR	DISAPPOINTMENT	IS	A	FAILURE	TO	SET EXPECTATIONS (p77)

Many	years	ago,	my	former	manager	Kate	Aronowitz	casually	asked	me	how my	team	was	doing.	'Everyone's	doing	well,'	I	replied,	'with	one	exception'
(we'll	call	him	Albert).	'Oh?'	she	said,	cocking	her	head.	'What's	going	on	with Albert?' I	sighed	and	launched	into	my	concerns:	The	first	version	of	his	recent	work had	wildly	missed	the	mark,	and	even	after	three	rounds	of	feedback,	it	wasn't quite	there.	His	engineers	were	getting	impatient,	and	the	other	designers wondered	why	he	consistently	ignored	their	suggestions. 'So	is	he	meeting	expectations?'	Kate	asked.	I	paused,	thought	about	it	for	a second,	and	then	said	no.	She	raised	an	eyebrow.	'And	have	you	told	him	that explicitly ?' 'Well	.	.	.'	I	trailed	off.	I	had	given	Albert	plenty	of	task-specific	feedback, but	I	wasn't	direct	about	how	his	performance	was	trending.	We	were	six	weeks away	from	doing	a	company-wide	360-feedback	cycle,	and	I	assumed	we	would talk	about	it	then.	I	could	tell	from	Kate's	expression	that	I	was	in	for	a	learning moment. 'If	the	first	time	he	hears	that	he's	not	meeting	expectations	is	during	his performance	review,	it's	going	to	feel	terrible,'	she	said.	She	went	on	to	explain that	because	our	reviews	are	meant	to	summarize	performance	from	the	past	six months,	if	Albert	was	indeed	not	meeting	expectations	for	most	of	that	time,	I should	have	told	him	that	much	earlier. She	was	right.	If	Albert	were	to	get	a	rude	shock	next	month,	he'd	have	three possible	explanations	for	what	happened,	none	of	which	are	good.
The	review	isn't	fair.	If	things	really	were	so	dire,	why	hasn't	this	come	up until	now?	This	must	be	a	mistake.
The	review	is	fair,	but	my	manager	was	negligent	and	didn't	realize	I	was underperforming	until	the	end	of	the	half.
The	review	is	fair,	but	my	manager	wasn't	honest	in	sharing	feedback	with me	along	the	way,	so	I	didn't	have	a	chance	to	improve.
I	was	at	risk	of	falling	into	bucket	three.	Luckily,	I	still	had	time	to	put	the lesson	into	action.	The	sooner	that	Albert	internalized	he	was	not	meeting expectations,	the	quicker	he	could	potentially	turn	things	around,	and	the smoother	our	future	performance	conversations	would	go. Nobody	likes	being	taken	by	surprise	with	bad	news.	Following	are	some examples	of	how	setting	expectations	early	can	preempt	future	disappointments.

## Your	Report	Has	Made	It	Clear	That	She	Wants	a	Promotion (p79)

You	don't	think	it's	likely	to	happen	within	the	next	six	months.	If	you	wait	until the	next	performance	review	to	tell	her,	she'll	have	spent	months	wondering	if she	got	the	promotion	and	then	be	disappointed. Instead,	if	you	say	right	away,	'I	understand	that	you'd	like	to	work	toward	a promotion,	but	here	are	the	gaps	I'm	seeing	.	.	.	,'	you're	showing	that	you	want to	help	her	reach	her	goal.	Spell	out	what	your	promotion	criteria	are.	Over	the next	few	months,	coach	her	and	give	her	frequent	feedback	on	how	she's	doing relative	to	those	expectations.	That	way,	she'll	never	have	to	wonder.

## You've	Just	Assigned	a	Challenging	New	Project	to	Your	Report (p79)

Because	this	project	is	high	stakes,	you'd	like	to	keep	a	close	eye	on	how	it's going.	If	you	frequently	drop	in	and	ask	for	an	update	or	give	unsolicited feedback,	you	risk	making	your	report	feel	disempowered.	He'll	be	constantly checking	over	his	shoulder,	paranoid	that	you're	just	around	the	corner. At	the	same	time,	you	don't	want	to	wait	a	month	before	reviewing	the	work. If	it's	not	heading	down	the	right	track,	you'd	like	to	know	sooner	rather	than later. Here,	setting	expectations	helps	with	both	problems.	At	the	beginning	of	the project,	let	your	report	know	how	you're	planning	to	be	involved.	Be	explicit that	you'd	like	to	review	the	work	twice	a	week	and	talk	through	the	most important	problems	together.	Tell	him	which	decisions	you	expect	to	make,	and which	he	should	make. Managers	who	pop	in	out	of	the	blue	and	throw	down	new	requirements	can breed	resentment	with	their	team	(just	Google	the	term	'Swoop	and	Poop.')	But managers	who	proactively	lay	out	what	they	care	about	and	how	they	want	to engage	in	projects	rarely	encounter	those	tensions.

## Your	Team	Has	Set	a	Goal	to	Launch	in	October (p79)

Let's	say	your	team	learns	in	June	that	they're	unlikely	to	be	ready	in	October. Would	you	prefer	for	them	to	tell	you	shortly	before	launch	or	right	away? I	don't	know	any	manager	who	would	choose	to	know	later.	At	that	point,	a lot	more	work	will	be	wasted-money	spent	on	marketing,	press	plans	that	need to	be	redone,	sales	forecasts	that	are	no	longer	accurate.	Plus,	you're	going	to wonder	why	your	team	didn't	tell	you	sooner-was	it	incompetence	or	was	it deceit? If	you're	informed	in	June,	then	you	have	more	options.	You	could	decide	to put	more	people	on	the	project	or	cut	features	to	hit	your	October	goal.	Or	you could	accept	the	delay	and	point	everyone	toward	a	new	launch	date. And	yet,	your	team	may	resist	telling	you	directly,	'We	don't	think	we	can make	the	October	goal.'	They	might	believe	they	can	still	turn	things	around.	Or they	might	fear	getting	into	trouble.	By	setting	expectations	that	you'd	like	to hear	about	any	concerns	with	the	launch	date	as	soon	as	possible,	you	establish that	it's	safe	to	talk	about	problems	even	in	the	early	phases. It's	impossible	to	expect	perfection.	We	are	only	human.	Failures	will	occur, projects	will	miss	deadlines,	and	people	will	make	mistakes.	That's	okay.	But when	these	things	happen,	readjusting	expectations	as	quickly	as	possible	helps people	recover	from	errors	with	grace.	You	demonstrate	care	and	maturity	when you	preempt	bigger	issues	down	the	road. Whenever	you	find	yourself	deeply	disappointed,	or	disappointing	someone else,	ask	yourself:	Where	did	I	miss	out	on	setting	clear	expectations,	and	how might	I	do	better	in	the	future?

## YOUR	FEEDBACK	ONLY	COUNTS	IF	IT	MAKES	THINGS BETTER (p80)

One	of	my	reports-we'll	call	him	George-had	a	tendency	to	be	long-winded when	he	spoke.	During	presentations,	the	audience	would	lose	the	thread	of	his point	and	he'd	be	met	with	a	room	of	blank	faces.	If	I	asked	for	a	quick	two-line update,	he'd	give	me	a	five-minute	explanation.	I	saw	that	this	made	people	less likely	to	listen	to	him,	so	one	day,	I	sat	him	down	and	told	him.	George	took	it well,	and	after	the	conversation,	I	gave	myself	a	hearty	pat	on	the	back.	Go,	me! I'd	given	helpful	feedback	and	done	my	duty	as	a	manager. A	few	weeks	later,	when	George	led	another	presentation,	the	exact	same thing	happened:	His	remarks	went	into	details	beyond	what	the	audience	could comprehend	in	thirty	minutes.	I	was	baffled.	Hadn't	we	just	talked	about	this? In	our	next	conversation,	I	asked	him	why	he	didn't	work	on	simplifying	his presentation.	He	frowned.	'But	I did work	on	it,'	he	insisted.	He	showed	me how	he	had	included	a	table	of	contents	and	changed	the	order	in	which	he talked	about	things.
That	was	when	I	realized	it	was I who	misunderstood:	George had heard	the feedback.	The	issue	was	that	he	didn't	see	what	was	complicated	about	the	way he	explained	things.	And	if	he	couldn't	see	it,	he	couldn't	fix	it. I	might	feel	accomplished	in	pointing	out	the	problem,	but	that's	not	the	point if	it	doesn't	actually	help	him.	The	mark	of	a	great	coach	is	that	others	improve under	your	guidance.	Maybe	you'd	like	to	see	your	reports	dream	bigger, accomplish	more,	or	overcome	the	barriers	that	get	in	their	way.	The	question that	should	always	be	in	the	back	of	your	mind	is:	Does	my	feedback	lead	to	the change	I'm	hoping	for? Broken	down	one	level	further,	consider	how	you're	doing	with	each	of	the following.

## Am	I	Giving	Feedback	Often	Enough? (p81)

I've	read	thousands	of	reviews	written	by	reports	about	their	managers,	and	the most	common	response	to	the	question	'How	could	your	manager	better	support you?'	is	simply	'Give	me	more	feedback.' It's	worth	pausing	for	a	moment:	before	getting	deep	into	the	nitty-gritty	of the how ,	the	first	step	is	simply	to give	feedback	more	often and	remind	yourself that	you're	probably	not	doing	it	enough. Every	time	you	see	one	of	your	reports	in	action-delivering	a	project, interacting	with	a	customer,	negotiating	a	sale,	speaking	up	in	a	meeting-see	if there's	something	useful	you	can	tell	her.	Strive	for	at	least	50	percent	positive feedback	so	she	knows	what	she's	doing	well-'You	made	a	particularly	keen observation'	or	'You	showed	a	lot	of	empathy	in	that	interaction.'	If	you	hear something	positive	from	a	colleague,	pass	it	along.	Or,	if	you	have	a	suggestion for	improvement,	even	if	it's	small,	tell	her	that	as	well-'You	said	a	lot	in	that meeting,	which	made	it	hard	for	others	to	get	in	a	word . ' At	the	same	time,	watch	out	for	only	ever	giving	task-specific	feedback.	The second	most	common	ask	from	reports	is:	'Give	me	more	feedback	related	to my	skills	and	my	career	trajectory.'	I	knew	a	manager	who	was	a	designer's designer	and	a	top-notch	creative	director.	He	could	casually	glance	at	a	mockup	and	tell	you	if	the	spacing	between	the	icons	was	two	pixels	off.	His	team always	knew	where	he	stood	on	their	work.	However,	in	their	upward	reviews,	I would	read	comments	like,	'I	want	to	understand	my	manager's	opinion	on	how I'm	progressing'	or	'I	want	to	have	conversations	about	my	career	goals	and how	to	achieve	them.'	His	team	longed	for	additional	attention	about them as people,	not	just	on	their	output. If	you	find	that	your	frequency	of	feedback	is	low,	one	tactic	I've	found helpful	is	to	devote	a	single	1:1	every	month	to just discussing	behavioral feedback	and	career	goals.

## Is	My	Feedback	Being	Heard? (p82)

I	once	had	a	report-we'll	call	her	Amy-who	I	didn't	feel	was	operating	at	her full	potential.	While	others	on	the	team	set	ambitious	goals	and	worked	hard	to hit	them,	she	shied	away	from	challenging	projects	and	completed	the	ones	she had	slowly.	She	took	long	lunches	and	often	did	unrelated	personal	tasks	at	her desk.	I	realized	I	needed	to	have	a	serious	conversation	with	her	about	her	low output. I	spent	a	week	preparing.	I	wrote	down	all	my	talking	points,	ran	them	by	a colleague	for	advice,	and	rehearsed	the	conversation	in	front	of	a	mirror.	When the	time	came,	I	walked	in	and	delivered	the	feedback	clearly.	I	walked	out feeling	like	a	huge	weight	had	been	lifted	from	my	shoulders. A	few	days	later,	another	colleague	approached	me	and	asked	if	we	could chat	in	private	about	Amy.	When	we	were	alone,	she	said,	'I'm	sure	you	didn't mean	it	this	way,	but	you	should	know	that	Amy	thinks	you're	overstepping	and micromanaging	her	time.	Why	did	you	say	that	she	shouldn't	be	allowed	to	have lunch	or	browse	the	internet	at	work?' Hearing	this,	I	was	shocked.	In	my	talk	with	Amy,	I	had	briefly	mentioned the	long	lunches	and	non-work	activity	as	two	data	points	among	others	that made	me	wonder	about	her	motivation.	But	the	point	I	really	wanted	to	make was	about	her	low	productivity.	If	she	was	a	top	performer,	this	issue	would never	have	come	up.	Conversely,	if	she	worked	double	the	hours	of	everyone else	but	didn't	accomplish	much,	I'd	still	be	concerned. If	you've	ever	played	a	game	of	telephone	as	a	kid,	you	know	this	to	be	true: What	you	intend	to	say	and	what	the	listener	hears	are	not	always	the	same.	You might	think	you're	being	clear	when	in	fact	you're	saying	too	much,	or	too	little, or	sending	a	different	message	through	your	body	language.	(I've	been	told,	for example,	that	I'm	prone	to	rambling,	which	can	make	it	hard	to	understand	my main	point,	and	that	my	friendliness	can	mask	the	seriousness	of	a	tough message.)	Add	to	that	the	listener's	confirmation	bias-our	tendency	to	recall things	that	confirm	preexisting	beliefs-and	it's	no	wonder	that	messages	get muddled	in	translation. Ed	Batista,	an	executive	coach	and	instructor	at	Stanford	Graduate	School	of Business,	explains	that	part	of	the	reason	feedback	doesn't	stick	is	that	the recipient	often	views	the	conversation	as	a	threat,	so	his	adrenaline-fueled	fightor-flight	instinct	kicks	in.	When	feedback	is	given,	Batista	writes,	the	listener's 'heart	rate	and	blood	pressure	are	almost	certain	to	increase,	[accompanied	by]	a cascade	of	neurological	and	physiological	events	that	impair	the	ability	to process	complex	information	and	react	thoughtfully.	When	people	are	in	the	grip of	a	threat	response,	they're	less	capable	of	absorbing	and	applying	your observations.' The	best	way	to	make	your	feedback	heard	is	to	make	the	listener	feel	safe, and	to	show	that	you're	saying	it	because	you	care	about	her	and	want	her	to succeed.	If	you	come	off	with	even	a	whiff	of	an	ulterior	motive-you	want	to be	right,	you're	judging	her,	you're	annoyed	or	impatient-the	message	won't get	through. This	is	why	positive	feedback	is	so	effective.	Just	ask	any	preschool	teacher or	pet	owner,	and	they'll	tell	you	that	recognizing	what's	going	well	is	more likely	to	change	behavior	than	only	pointing	out	mistakes.	Saying,	'Hey,	I thought	that	thing	you	did	was	awesome,'	reinforces	what	you'd	like	to	see	more of	without	being	threatening. When	you	do	have	critical	feedback	to	share,	approach	it	with	a	sense	of curiosity	and	an	honest	desire	to	understand	your	report's	perspective.	One simple	way	to	do	this	is	to	state	your	point	directly	and	then	follow	up	with, 'Does	this	feedback	resonate	with	you?	Why	or	why	not?'	Most	of	the	time when	I	ask	this	question,	the	answer	is	yes,	and	now	the	person	has	both acknowledged	and	reflected	on	the	feedback,	so	it's	more	likely	to	stick.	If	the answer	is	no,	that's	fine	as	well-now	we	can	discuss	why	that	is,	and	what would	make	the	feedback	more	useful. At	the	end	of	a	conversation,	when	you're	not	sure	whether	you've	been heard,	there	are	a	few	things	you	can	do.	The	first	is	a	verbal	confirmation: 'Okay,	let's	make	sure	we're	on	the	same	page-what	are	your	takeaways	and next	steps?'	The	second	is	to	summarize	via	email	what	was	discussed.	Writing can	clarify	the	points	being	made	as	well	as	be	reread	and	referenced	in	the future. The	third	tactic	is	to	help	the	person	hear	the	same	message	many	times	and from	many	sources.	For	example,	try	dedicating	multiple	1:1s	to	talking	about
particularly	tough	areas	of	growth	with	your	report.	Gather	and	share	360-degree feedback	when	you	suspect	your	message	isn't	landing-it's	a	powerful	way	to relay	that	others	are	seeing	the	same	thing.	One	manager	I	know	takes	it	even further-whenever	he	gets	feedback	about	one	of	his	reports	from	someone	else, he	always	asks	that	person,	'Would	you	be	comfortable	sharing	that	feedback directly	with	X?'	He	reasons	that	there	will	be	less	of	a	distortion	effect	if	he removes	himself	as	a	middleman	and	that	the	feedback	will	be	more	clearly heard	and	internalized.

## Does	My	Feedback	Lead	to	Positive	Action? (p84)

When	I	asked	George	to	simplify	his	communication,	the	problem	wasn't	that	he didn't	hear	the	message.	He	did-he	just	didn't	know	what	to	do	with	it.	As	a result,	my	feedback	wasn't	helpful. How	do	you	ensure	that	your	feedback	can	be	acted	upon?	Remember	these three	tips.
1. Make	your	feedback	as	specific	as	possible. When	I	told	George,	'Your presentation	was	complicated	and	people	had	a	hard	time	understanding	it,'	I was	assuming	that	his	definition	of complicated and	mine	were	the	same.	This	is rarely	the	case,	so	my	feedback	ended	up	sounding	vague.	Which	aspects	were complicated?	What	was	said,	exactly,	that	led	to	people	being	confused? Use	clear	examples	that	get	at	the why so	it's	easier	for	the	recipient	to	know what	you	mean.
You	lost	the	room	when	you	shared	seven	goals	for	the	review	instead of	just	one	or	two.	It' s	hard	to	remember	them	all,	so	the	priorities	felt unclear.
At	the	end,	you	showed	three	different	directions	for	where	we	could	go from	here,	but	you	didn't	give	us	your	recommendations	or	how	to	think about	the	pros	and	cons	of	each	option.	As	a	result,	people	were confused	about	the	next	steps.
2. Clarify	what	success	looks	and	feels	like. Even	if	your	feedback	is	specific, heard,	and	understood,	it	can	still	be	hard	for	the	other	person	to	have	a	clear picture	of	what	they	should	aspire	to.	Some	years	ago,	at	a	design	review,	my manager	Chris	told	us	that	our	proposed	designs	showing	a	registration	form	felt too	'heavy.' One	of	the	designers	in	the	room	suggested	that	we	change	the	outline	stroke of	the	form	field	boxes	from	blue	to	gray	and	that	we	put	a	little	more	space between	them.	'It'll	feel	lighter	and	more	breathable,'	he	said.	Chris	thought about	it.	'Think	of	the	lines	at	Disneyland,'	he	finally	said.	'You're	actually waiting	in	a	really	long	line,	but	because	you're	going	from	one	small	room	to another,	it	doesn't	feel	like	the	line	is	overwhelming.	That's	what	I'm	going	for.' Instantly,	we	had	a	clear	sense	of	how	to	improve	the	flow-break	the	one	long form	into	a	series	of	smaller	ones.
3. Suggest	next	steps. Often	the	easiest	way	to	help	your	report	translate	your feedback	into	action	is	to	share	what	you	think	the	next	steps	should	be.	Be	clear about	whether	you're	setting	an	expectation	or	merely	offering	a	suggestion. Also,	beware	of	overdoing	this-if	you're	always	dictating	what	should	happen next,	you're	not	empowering	your	team	to	learn	to	solve	problems	on	their	own. A	softer	approach	is	to	ask	your	report,	'So	what	do	you	think	the	next	steps should	be?'	and	let	them	guide	the	discussion.
Can	you	do	another	pass	on	this	report	with	the	changes	we	discussed today,	and	I'll	set	up	the	next	review	for	Thursday?
One	suggestion	that	might	help	you	with	your	next	presentation	is using	the	rule	of	threes-no	more	than	three	goals,	three	sections,	and three	bullets	per	slide.
Given	what	we	just	talked	about,	what	are	your	next	steps?

## DELIVERING	CRITICAL	FEEDBACK	OR	BAD	NEWS (p85)

Telling	your	report	something	disappointing	is	both	important	and	unavoidable. Here,	the how matters	tremendously.	You	can	convey	the	same	point	a	dozen different	ways-by	varying	your	chosen	words,	your	tone,	or	your	body language.	Observe:
You're	such	a	screwup.	What	am	I	going	to	do	with	you?
Your	work	is	terrible,	and	I	need	to	know	how	you're	going	to	fix	it.
I'm	concerned	about	the	quality	of	work	that	I've	been	seeing	from	you recently.	Can	we	talk	about	that?
Your	last	few	deliverables	weren't	comprehensive	enough	to	hit	the	mark, so	let' s	discuss	why	that	is	and	how	to	address	it.
I	have	a	few	questions	about	your	latest	work-do	you	have	a	moment	to walk	me	through	it?
Common	sense	says	that	number	one	is	to	be	avoided	like	the	plague. Nothing	good	comes	out	of	accusing	someone	of	being	a	screwup.	Charged language	or	declarations	that	are	personal	('you're	thoughtless'	instead	of	'your action	was	thoughtless')	immediately	puts	the	other	person	on	the	defensive. Suddenly	you're	a	threat	they're	protecting	themselves	from,	and	it's	unlikely they're	going	to	sit	down	and	listen	to	what	you	have	to	say	after	that. Number	two	isn't	personal,	but terrible is	still	a	strong	word.	It	feels	like	a one-way	scolding	where	you're	acting	as	the	judge,	and	the	burden	of	fixing things	falls	entirely	on	your	report. Nobody	thinking	rationally	intends	to	say	numbers	one	or	two,	but	it	happens. We	get	upset	or	emotional.	Someone	says	something	that	pisses	us	off	and	all	of a	sudden,	we're	seeing	red	and	want	to	give	them	a	piece	of	our	mind.	The	best advice	for	prevention?	Don't	engage	when	you	are	upset.	We	regret	the	things we	say	in	anger,	and	while	bridges	take	months	or	years	to	build,	they	can	be burned	in	an	instant.	So	recognize	when	that	vein	on	your	forehead	is	starting	to bulge,	take	a	deep	breath,	say,	'Let's	talk	about	this	later,'	and	exit	stage	left. Number	five	( I	have	a	few	questions	about	your	latest	work-do	you	have	a moment	to	walk	me	through	it? )	might	seem	like	an	attractive	opener	(and	is	how I	used	to	begin	many	of	my	critical	feedback	sessions),	but	it's	the	scared manager's	choice.	You're	afraid	of	upsetting	your	report	or	you're	not	sure	if your	opinion	is	100	percent	right,	so	you	phrase	your	concerns	as	'questions.' While	it's	healthy	to	approach	giving	feedback	with	a	curious	mindsetwhat's the	other	side	of	the	story? -don't	lose	the	plot.	At	best,	framing	your	worries	as questions	feels	disingenuous,	and	at	worst,	your	report	will	miss	that	you're actually	concerned,	which	means	nothing	will	change. The	best	way	to	give	critical	feedback	is	to	deliver	it	directly	and dispassionately.	Plainly	say	what	you	perceive	the	issue	to	be,	what	made	you feel	that	way,	and	how	you'd	like	to	work	together	to	resolve	the	concern.	Both number	three	( I'm	concerned	about	the	quality	of	work	that	I've	been	seeing from	you	recently )	and	four	( Your	last	few	deliverables	weren't	comprehensive enough	to	hit	the	mark )	accomplish	that,	although	number	four	gets	a	slight	edge because	it's	more	specific	in	describing	the	concern. If	you	need	a	template,	try	this:

## When	I	[heard/observed/reflected	on]	your	[action/behavior/output],	I felt	concerned	because	.	.	. (p87)


## I'd	like	to	understand	your	perspective	and	talk	about	how	we	can resolve	this. (p87)

Don't	start	with	a	long	preamble.	Don't	try	to	sugarcoat	a	tough	message	or pad	it	with	'softer'	points.	As	a	new	manager,	I	read	advice	that	the	best	way	to deliver	critical	feedback	was	in	a	'compliment	sandwich,'	where	you	start	out with	a	positive	observation,	then	slide	in	your	suggestion	for	improvement,	then close	with	another	pat	on	the	back,	as	if	the	only	way	veggies	can	be	palatable	is if	they're	surrounded	by	a	bunch	of	marshmallows. I	find	this	ineffective-lobbing	over	a	few	superficial	words	of	praise	to temper	a	hard	message	comes	off	as	insincere.	Plus,	the	thing	you	actually	want them	to	pay	attention	to	might	be	lost.	Which	of	the	below	do	you	think	is	more effective	at	getting	people	to	put	away	their	phone?
Hey,	nice	job	bringing	up	the	point	about	budgeting	in	the	last	meeting. By	the	way,	try	not	to	use	your	phone	so	much	next	time,	as	it	can	be distracting.	But	those	next	steps	you	took	us	through	were	really	well framed!
Hey,	I	noticed	that	when	you	use	your	phone	in	meetings,	it's distracting	because	it	suggests	that	the	meeting	isn't	worth	paying attention	to.	Can	we	agree	to	no	phones	in	the	future?
If	you	are	delivering	bad	news	about	a	decision-you	decided	to	pick someone	else	for	a	coveted	position,	you're	pulling	your	report	off	the	project, you	no	longer	have	a	role	for	this	person	on	your	team,	etc.-the	decision	should be	the	first	thing	out	of	your	mouth	when	you	both	sit	down.

## I've	decided	to	go	with	somebody	else	to	lead	this	initiative	.	.	. (p87)

Own	the	decision.	Be	firm,	and	don't	open	it	up	for	discussion.	I	failed	at	this many	times	in	the	past	because	I	hated	being	the	bearer	of	bad	news.	So	I'd	try to	position	the	decision	as	something	we	were	making	together.	'I	want	to discuss	the	leadership	role	on	Project	Z,'	I'd	say.	'I'm	concerned	that	you	won't have	the	time	for	it.	You're	already	doing	so	much	on	X	and	Y.	So	I	think	it'd	be good	for	somebody	else	to	lead	Z.	What	do	you	think?' The	problem	was,	if	nothing	my	report	said	could	convince	me	to	change	my mind,	it's	insincere	to	act	as	if	she	had	had	a	say.	What	if	she	responds, 'Actually,	I	do	have	the	time	for	it'?	Or	if	she	brings	up	a	slew	of	other	reasons why	she's	the	best	candidate?	I'd	only	be	scrambling	to	give	her	another	excuse, which	would	make	her	feel	unheard. When	you	give	feedback	or	make	a	decision,	your	report	may	not	agree	with it.	That's	okay.	Keep	in	mind	that	some	decisions	are	yours	to	make.	You	are	the person	ultimately	held	accountable	for	the	output	of	your	team,	and	you	may have	more	information	or	a	different	perspective	on	the	right	path	forward. Managing	through	consensus	may	feel	like	a	good	idea	because	you	won't offend	anyone,	but	I	can't	think	of	a	single	influential	leader	who	hasn't	had	to go	out	on	a	limb	and	do	something	somebody	else	disagreed	with.	Acknowledge the	disagreement	respectfully,	then	move	on.	'I	recognize	that	you	may	not	agree with	my	decision,	but	I'm	asking	for	your	cooperation	in	moving	forward.' Ultimately,	what	I've	learned	about	giving	feedback-even	the	most	difficult feedback-is	that	people	are	not	fragile	flowers.	No	report	has	ever	said	to	me, 'Please	treat	me	with	kid	gloves.'	Instead,	they	say:	'I	want	your	feedback	to help	me	improve.'	They	tell	me,	'I'd	like	you	to	be	honest	and	direct	with	me.' How	many	of	us	don't	want	the	same?	Telling	it	straight	is	a	sign	of	respect. 'It's	brutally	hard	to	tell	people	when	they	are	screwing	up,'	writes	Kim Scott,	a	former	Google	manager	and	the	author	of Radical	Candor .	'You	don't want to	hurt	anyone's	feelings;	that's	because	you're	not	a	sadist.	You	don't	want that	person	or	the	rest	of	the	team	to	think	you're	a	jerk.	Plus,	you've	been	told since	you	learned	to	talk,	'If	you	don't	have	anything	nice	to	say,	don't	say anything	at	all.'	Now	all	of	a	sudden	it's	your job to	say	it.	You've	got	to	undo	a lifetime	of	training.' I'm	still	working	on	mastering	the	art	of	feedback.	Every	relationship	is different,	so	the	frequency,	style,	and	type	of	feedback	that	works	for	one	person might	not	work	for	someone	else.	Mistakes	are	inevitable.	But	when	you	give feedback	well	and	you	help	your	report	grow	as	a	result,	there	is	no	better feeling.
No	matter	what	happens,	the	skills	your	team	members	develop	are	theirs	for life.	At	Facebook,	we	have	a	saying	immortalized	in	posters	all	over	campus: 'Feedback	is	a	gift.'	It	costs	time	and	effort	to	share,	but	when	we	have	it,	we're better	off.	So	let's	give	it	generously.

## Chapter	Five (p90)


## Managing	Yourself (p90)

After	I	had	my first	baby,	I	took	three	months	off	from	work	before returning.	I	knew	the	transition	back	would	be	hard,	but	I	was	not	prepared	for	a 'Winter	Is	Coming'	kind	of	difficult.	A	few	weeks	in,	I	found	myself overwhelmed	by	every	little	thing.	My	mind	felt	like	the	aftermath	of	a	fourthgrade	volcano	project,	all	thick	and	sticky	and	slow.	When	I	was	at	home,	I thought	about	work,	and	when	I	was	at	work,	I	thought	about	home.	My	inability to	focus	became	a	source	of	debilitating	stress. Convinced	that	I	had	suddenly	transformed	into	a	weepier	and	less	capable person,	I	asked	my	manager	Chris	if	I	could	get	an	executive	coach.	That's	how	I was	first	introduced	to	Stacy	McCarthy. The	first	thing	I	blurted	out	to	Stacy	after	we	introduced	ourselves	was	that	I needed	to	fix everything .	In	increasingly	high-pitched	tones,	I	began	listing	off one	tangled	issue	after	another:	areas	that	were	desperately	understaffed,	people who	wanted	a	change	in	their	roles,	a	product	strategy	I	didn't	agree	with,	and	so on.	I	imagined	her	helping	me	unravel	each	problem	until	they	were	simple,	soft balls	of	yarn	ready	to	be	reknit	with	purpose. Instead,	Stacy	listened	calmly	until	I	was	done.	Then	she	said,	'We'll	get	to all	that	later,	but	first,	why	don't	we	take	a	step	back?	Tell	me	about	you.' I	could	only	blink.	Talk	about	me?	But	how	would	that	help	any	one	of	the seven	fires	that	needed	putting	out? But	Stacy	persisted.	She	asked	me	about	my	past	and	the	road	I'd	taken	to	get here.	We	talked	about	the	future-the	way, way future-where	she	asked	me	to picture	myself	at	eighty,	sitting	on	a	beach	and	looking	back	on	my	life.	What did	I	want	to	remember?	Then	she	asked	me	if	I	would	be	okay	with	her interviewing	several	people	who	I	worked	closely	with. I	said	yes.	Two	weeks	later	at	our	next	meeting,	she	showed	up	with	a	twentypage	report all	about	me .	There	was	nothing	about	the	specific	problems	at	hand. Instead,	this	stack	of	papers	asked	deeper	questions	about	how	I	worked-what were	my	perceived	strengths	and	weaknesses?	In	what	ways	did	I	impress	or annoy	those	around	me?	What	was	my	management	style	like?
I	remember	the	weight	of	the	document	as	she	handed	it	to	me,	tucked	neatly into	a	manila	folder.	I	shoved	the	package	in	my	backpack,	unwilling	to	deal with	it.	It	was	only	later	at	night,	when	the	baby	was	asleep	and	I	was	alone	with the	lights	dimmed,	that	I	felt	ready	to	confront	the	truth.	I	took	a	deep	breath	and turned	to	the	first	page. At	that	moment,	feeling	so	ungrounded	and	unsure	of	myself,	I	struggled	to read	the	report.	I	felt	like	a	specimen	dissected	and	laid	bare.	As	much	as	you	try to	tell	yourself	that	your	inner	turmoil	lives	inside	your	own	head,	the	truth	is that	most	of	us	aren't	very	good	actors.	People	know.	They	see	the	faults	that you	don't	want	to	admit,	like	how	my	anxiety	was	leading	to	wishy-washy decisions.	But	they're	also	kinder	to	you	than	you	might	imagine.	I	remember tearing	up	reading	comments	about	how	I	was	kicking	ass	in	ways	that	I	wasn't giving	myself	credit	for. Looking	back,	that	twenty-page	report	was	one	of	the	best	things	that happened	to	my	career.	It	helped	me	calibrate	my	own	internal	compass.	It allowed	me	to	understand	where	my	fears	were	overblown-nobody actually thought	I	was	a	weepy	and	less	capable	person-and	where	I	wasn't	paying enough	attention-like	setting	clear	expectations	for	myself	and	others.	Once	I knew	where	I	stood,	I	could	start	moving	forward. Being	a	great	manager	is	a	highly	personal	journey,	and	if	you	don't	have	a good	handle	on	yourself,	you	won't	have	a	good	handle	on	how	to	best	support your	team.	That's	what	Stacy	was	trying	to	tell	me.	No	matter	what	obstacles you	face,	you	first	need	to	get	deep	with	knowing you -your	strengths,	your values,	your	comfort	zones,	your	blind	spots,	and	your	biases.	When	you	fully understand	yourself,	you'll	know	where	your	true	north	lies.

## EVERYBODY	FEELS	LIKE	AN	IMPOSTER	SOMETIMES (p93)

I	first	learned	the	term imposter	syndrome during	my	junior	year	of	college.	A professor	studying	gender	differences	stood	in	front	of	a	packed	lecture	hall, citing	example	after	example	that	gave	me	shivers. Yes!	This	describes	exactly how	I	feel! I	don't	deserve	to	be	here	in	this	auditorium,	at	this	dazzling institution,	with	so	many	brilliant	students.	I	must	have	gotten	here	by	error	or luck	or	the	grace	of	the	stars. When	are	they	going	to	figure	out	that	I	got	good grades	because	I	have	a	good	memory,	not	because	I'm	actually	smart? As	a	new	manager,	I've	felt	this	way	countless	times	as	well. Rebekah	made	a terrible	mistake-I	have	no	idea	what	I'm	doing ,	my	inner	voice	would	whisper every	time	I	fumbled	an	interaction	or	struggled	to	make	a	decision. But	over	the	years,	I	have	learned	a	secret	that	bears	repeating: Every manager	feels	like	an	imposter	sometimes.	Every	manager	was	once	new, stumbling	through	interviews	and	1:1s	and	awkward	conversations.	It's	so common	that	instead	of	pretending	like	we	are	all	ducks	gliding	effortlessly	on the	surface	of	the	water,	we	should	own	up	to	the	furious	paddling	that	is happening	beneath. Imposter	syndrome	is	what	makes	you	feel	as	though	you're	the	only	one with	nothing	worthwhile	to	say	when	you	walk	into	a	room	full	of	people	you admire.	Imposter	syndrome	is	what	makes	you	double-,	triple-,	or	quadruplecheck	your	email	before	hitting Send so	that	nobody	finds	any	mistakes	and figures	out	you're	actually	a	fraud.	Imposter	syndrome	is	the	sensation	that you're	teetering	along	the	edge	of	a	sheer	cliff	with	flailing	arms,	the	whole world	watching	and	waiting	to	see	when	you	fall. Here's	the	thing	to	remember:	feeling	this	way	is	totally	normal.	Linda	Hill,	a professor	at	Harvard	Business	School,	has	spent	years	studying	the	transition into	management.	'Ask	any	new	manager	about	the	early	days	of	being	a	bossindeed,	ask	any	senior	executive	to	recall	how	he	or	she	felt	as	a	new	manager.	If you	get	an	honest	answer,	you'll	hear	a	tale	of	disorientation	and,	for	some, overwhelming	confusion.	The	new	role	didn't	feel	anything	like	it	was	supposed to.	It	felt	too	big	for	any	one	person	to	handle.' Why	does	imposter	syndrome	hit	managers	so	hard?	There	are	two	reasons. The	first	is	that	you're	often	looked	to	for	answers.	I've	had	reports	tell	me	about difficult	personal	issues	and	ask	for	my	advice.	I've	gotten	requests	for permission	to	do	things	that	the	company	has	never	done	before,	like	spend hundreds	of	thousands	of	dollars	on	a	new	initiative.	I've	received	emotional inquiries	from	people	about	countless	decisions	that	I	didn't	make	myself	but that	I	still	had	to	explain. When	the	sailing	gets	rocky,	the	manager	is	often	the	first	person	others	turn to,	so	it's	common	to	feel	an	intense	pressure	to	know	what	to	do	or	say.	When you	don't,	you	naturally	think: Am	I	cut	out	for	this	job? The	second	reason	is	that	you	are	constantly	put	in	the	position	of	doing things	you	haven't	done	before.	For	example,	say	you	have	to	fire	someone. How	do	you	prepare	yourself	for	such	a	task?	It's	not	like	improving	your	skills in	drawing	or	writing,	where	you	can	invest	time	on	nights	and	weekends	to sketch	or	compose	short	stories.	You	can't	just	snap	your	fingers	and	say,	'I'm
going	to	practice	firing	a	lot	of	people	this	month.'	You	must	actually go	through the	real	thing in	order	to	gain	the	experience	you	need. Management	isn't	an	innate	skill.	There	is	no	such	thing	as	an	'all-around great	manager'	who	can	transition	effortlessly	between	different	leadership roles.	We	must	look	at	the	specific	context. For	example,	I	consider	myself	a	seasoned	manager,	but	if	I	were	to	lead	a team	that	was	triple	the	size	or	in	a	discipline	I	don't	know	well,	like	sales,	I'd probably	fail	to	produce	strong	results	immediately.	I'd	need	to	identify	my growth	areas	in	that	environment-such	as	how	to	communicate	effectively	with a	much	larger	group	of	people	or	how	to	set	good	sales	goals-and	spend	time honing	those	skills. No	matter	how	often	imposter	syndrome	rears	its	ugly	head,	it	doesn't	have	to derail	you.	In	these	next	sections,	we'll	look	at	techniques	for	how	to	deal	with the	inevitable	doubts	and	discomfort	that	will	arise.

## GET	TO	BRUTAL	HONESTY	WITH	YOURSELF (p95)

Let	me	tell	you	a	few	facts	about	me:	I'm	more	comfortable	in	small	groups	than big	ones.	I	care	deeply	about	understanding	first	principles.	I	am	more	articulate in	writing	than	in	person.	I	need	time	alone	to	reflect	and	process	new	facts before	forming	an	opinion.	I	skew	toward	long-term	thinking,	which	means	that I	sometimes	make	impractical	short-term	decisions.	And	at	the	end	of	the	day, nothing	gives	me	more	satisfaction	than	learning	and	growing. Why	does	any	of	this	matter?	Because	these	strengths	and	weaknesses directly	affect	how	I	manage. Some	of	my	colleagues	have	completely	different	superpowers.	Among	the people	I	work	closest	with,	one	has	an	ability	to	take	incredibly	complex	topics and	transform	them	into	easy-to-remember	frameworks	that	get	at	the	heart	of what	really	matters.	One's	strategic	prowess	is	so	strong	that	I'm	convinced	he must	have	been	a	five-star	general	in	a	past	life.	And	one	amazes	me	with	the way	she	manages	to	keep	twenty	threads	moving	full	steam	ahead	at	the	same time.	Yet	these	same	folks	have	told	me	there	are	things	I	do	that	they	admire	as well. The	facets	of	our	personality	are	like	the	ingredients	that	come	together	for	a recipe.	Could	you	make	a	tasty	dinner	if	you	peered	into	your	fridge	and	saw some	broccoli,	eggs,	and	chicken?	Sure.	What	if	you	had	potatoes,	beef,	and spinach?	Of	course.	The	key	is	to	understand	what	works	best	with	what	you have. The	world's	top	leaders	come	from	vastly	different	molds-some	are extroverts	(Winston	Churchill)	and	some	are	introverts	(Abraham	Lincoln); some	are	demanding	(Margaret	Thatcher)	and	others	remind	you	of	a	favorite relative	(Mother	Teresa);	some	leave	a	room	breathless	with	their	vision	(Nelson Mandela)	and	others	prefer	to	avoid	the	spotlight	(Bill	Gates). The	first	part	in	understanding	how	you	lead	is	to	know	your	strengths-the things	you're	talented	at	and	love	to	do.	This	is	crucial	because	great management	typically	comes	from	playing	to	your	strengths	rather	than	from fixing	your	weaknesses.	There	are	some	useful	frameworks	for	understanding your	strengths,	like StrengthsFinder	2.0 by	Tom	Rath	or StandOut by	Marcus Buckingham.	If	you	want	to	do	a	quick	version,	jot	down	the	first	thing	that comes	to	mind	when	you	ask	yourself	the	following	questions:
How	would	the	people	who	know	and	like	me	best	(family,	significant other,	close	friends)	describe	me	in	three	words? MY	ANSWER: thoughtful,	enthusiastic,	driven
What	three	qualities	do	I	possess	that	I	am	the	proudest	of?
MY	ANSWER: curious,	reflective,	optimistic
When	I	look	back	on	something	I	did	that	was	successful,	what	personal
traits	do	I	give	credit	to? MY	ANSWER: vision,	determination,	humility
What	are	the	top	three	most	common	pieces	of	positive	feedback	that	I've
received	from	my	manager	or	peers? MY	ANSWER: principled,	fast	learner,	long-term	thinker
Like	mine,	your	responses	will	likely	cluster	around	a	few	themes.	Here,	you can	see	that	my	strengths	are	dreaming	big,	learning	quickly,	and	remaining upbeat.	Whatever	yours	are,	remember	them	and	hold	them	dear.	You'll	be relying	on	them	time	and	time	again. The	second	part	of	getting	to	an	honest	reckoning	with	yourself	is	knowing your	weaknesses	and	triggers.	Right	beneath	your	list	of	strengths,	answer	the following:
Whenever	my	worst	inner	critic	sits	on	my	shoulder,	what	does	she	yell	at me	for?
MY	ANSWER: getting	distracted,	worrying	too	much	about	what	others	think, not	voicing	what	I	believe
If	a	magical	fairy	were	to	come	and	bestow	on	me	three	gifts	I	don't	yet have,	what	would	they	be?
MY	ANSWER: bottomless	well	of	confidence,	clarity	of	thought,	incredible persuasion
What	are	three	things	that	trigger	me?	(A	trigger	is	a	situation	that	gets	me
more	worked	up	than	it	should.) sense	of	injustice,	the	idea	that	someone	else	thinks	I'm
MY	ANSWER: incompetent,	people	with	inflated	egos
What	are	the	top	three	most	common	pieces	of	feedback	from	my	manager
or	peers	on	how	I	could	be	more	effective? MY	ANSWER: be	more	direct,	take	more	risks,	explain	things	simply
Again,	you	may	see	some	themes	emerging.	The	biggest	barriers	that	get	in my	way	are	self-doubt,	a	tendency	to	complexify,	and	not	being	clear	and	direct enough. Okay,	now	that	we've	got	our	lists,	the	next	part	is calibration ,	which	is making	sure	that	the	view	we	have	of	ourselves	matches	reality.	This	is	harder than	it	sounds.	Our	self-perception	is	like	a	roller	coaster.	Some	days,	we struggle	with	self-compassion.	We	make	a	mistake	and	our	inner	critic	chirps loudly	about	how	we're	worthless.	Other	days,	we	think	we're	the	best	thing since	sliced	bread.	(There's	even	a	term	to	describe	the	cognitive	bias	where people	who	aren't	actually	very	skilled	have	a	tendency	to	think	they're	better than	they	are: the	Dunning-Kruger	effect .) Calibration	matters	because	it	doesn't	do	me	any	good	to	think	that	I'm	one thing	when	the	world	views	me	as	another.	For	example,	if	I	believe	I'm	an amazing	public	speaker	but	everyone	else	thinks	my	talks	are	tedious,	I	might make	a	bad	decision	like	choosing	to	present	a	bold	new	idea	myself	instead	of asking	someone	who	would	sell	it	better.	Even	worse,	people	will	start	to discount	what	I	say	because	they'll	conclude	that	I	have	a	warped	sense	of reality.
To	develop	our	self-awareness	and	to	calibrate	our	strengths	and	weaknesses, we	must	confront	the	truth	of	what	we're	really	like	by	asking	others	for	their unvarnished	opinions.	The	goal	isn't	to	seek	praise;	the	goal	is	to	give	our	peers a	safe	opening	where	they	can	be	honest-even	brutally	honest-so	that	we	can get	the	most	accurate	information.	In	the	same	way	that	you	gather	feedback	for your	reports,	you	can	learn	about	yourself	through	the	following	tactics:
Ask	your	manager	to	help	you	calibrate	yourself	through	the	following	two questions:
What	opportunities	do	you	see	for	me	to	do	more	of	what	I	do	well?	What do	you	think	are	the	biggest	things	holding	me	back	from	having	greater impact?
What	skills	do	you	think	a	hypothetical	perfect	person	in	my	role	would have?	For	each	skill,	how	would	you	rate	me	against	that	ideal	on	a scale	of	one	to	five?
Pick	three	to	seven	people	whom	you	work	closely	with	and	ask	if	they'd be	willing	to	share	some	feedback	to	help	you	improve.	Even	if	your company	already	has	a	process	for	360-degree	feedback,	it	helps	to	be specific	about	what	you	want	to	know	and	to	provide	reassurances	that you're	looking	for	honesty,	not	just	pats	on	the	back.	Take	the	example below.
Hey,	I	value	your	feedback	and	I'd	like	to	be	a	more	effective	team member.	Would	you	be	willing	to	answer	the	questions	below?	Please	be as	honest	as	you	can	because	that's	what	will	help	me	the	most-I promise	nothing	you	say	will	offend	me.	Feedback	is	a	gift,	and	I'm grateful	for	your	taking	the	time.
On	our	last	project	together,	in	what	ways	did	you	see	me	having	impact? What	do	you	think	I	could	have	done	to	have	more	impact?
With	my	team,	what	am	I	doing	well	that	you'd	like	to	see	me	do	more	of? What	should	I	stop	doing?
One	of	the	things	I'm	working	on	is	being	more	decisive.	How	do	you think	I'm	doing	on	that?	Any	suggestions	on	how	I	can	do	better	here?
Ask	for	task-specific	feedback	to	calibrate	yourself	on	specific	skills.	For example,	if	you're	not	sure	how	good	of	a	public	speaker	you	are,	follow	up with	a	few	people	after	you	give	a	presentation	and	say,	'I'm	hoping	to improve	my	speaking	skills.	What	do	you	think	went	well	with	my presentation?	What	would	have	made	it	twice	as	good?'
I'll	pause	here	and	acknowledge	that	asking	for	feedback	is	hard.	You	might have	read	the	suggestions	above	and	cringed	when	thinking	about	doing	them. It	took	me	years	before	I	got	comfortable	asking	for	feedback	from	others (outside	of	formal	reviews	where	I	had	to).	Why?	It	goes	back	to	the	imposter syndrome.	Because	I	constantly	worried	that	I	wasn't	good	enough,	I	shied	away from	doing	anything	that	might	confirm	that	view.	I	imagined	someone	I respected	telling	me	that	yes,	indeed,	I	wasn't	doing	X	or	Y	very	well.	They've found	me	out!	So	I'd	keep	my	mouth	shut	and	soldier	on,	pretending	that everything	was	fine. It	takes	a	certain	amount	of	confidence	to	ask	for	critical	feedback.	For	me, the	breakthrough	came	when	I	realized	I	needed	to	change	my	mindset.	If	I	saw every	challenge	as	a	test	of	my	worthiness,	then	I'd	constantly	worry	about where	I	stood	rather	than	how	I	could	improve.	It's	like	stressing	out	more	about your	exam	grade	than	about	whether	you're	actually	learning	the	concepts	being taught. On	the	other	hand,	if	I	approached	challenges	with	the	belief	that	I	could	get better	at	anything	if	I	put	in	the	effort,	then	the	vicious	cycle	of	anxious	selfevaluation	would	be	broken.	No	matter	how	good	or	bad	I	am	at	any	particular skill,	the	notion	that	it's	within	my	power	to	improve	has	allowed	me	to approach	learning	with	curiosity	instead	of	apprehension.	And	the	rewards	have been	tremendous-I	would	never	have	known	that	my	feedback	was	often	vague and	hand-wavy	had	I	not	invited	that	comment	from	a	colleague.	Once	I	heard	it, I	was	able	to	work	on	making	my	points	more	precise	and	actionable,	and	now that's	praised	as	one	of	my	strengths. In	her	influential	book Mindset ,	pioneering	psychologist	Carol	Dweck describes	how	the	two	different	mindsets-which	she	calls fixed and growth -make	a	huge	difference	in	our	performance	and	personal	happiness.	Observe the	difference:
SCENARIO: After	completing	an	assignment,	your	manager	gives	you	a	few suggestions	for	improvement. FIXED	MINDSET: Ugh,	I	really	messed	that	up.	My	manager	must	think	I'm	an idiot. GROWTH	MINDSET: I'm	thankful	my	manager	gave	me	those	tips.	Now	all	my future	assignments	are	going	to	go	better.
SCENARIO: You're	asked	if	you'd	like	to	take	the	lead	on	a	risky	and challenging	new	project.
I'd	better	say	no.	I	don't	want	to	fail	and	embarrass	myself.
This	is	a	great	opportunity	to	stretch,	learn	something	new, and	gain	the	experience	needed	to	lead	other	big	projects	down	the	road.
SCENARIO: You've	just	had	a	tense	1:1	with	your	report	Alice. FIXED	MINDSET: I	should	act	as	if	that	went	well	so	I	come	off	like	I	know	what I'm	doing. GROWTH	MINDSET:
I	should	ask	Alice	how	she	felt	about	that	conversation	and how	we	might	have	more	productive	discussions	in	the	future.
You're	in	the	middle	of	working	on	a	proposal,	and	John	asks	to
I	don't	want	to	show	John	anything	right	now	because	the proposal	is	in	rough	shape.	It'll	make	me	look	bad.
John's	feedback	will	be	really	helpful.	In	fact,	I	should share	my	early	thinking	with	even	more	people	so	I	can	get	ahead	of	any
The	perspective	you	have	changes	everything.	With	a	fixed	mindset,	your actions	are	governed	by	fear-fear	of	failure,	fear	of	judgment,	fear	of	being found	out	as	an	imposter.	With	a	growth	mindset,	you're	motivated	to	seek	out the	truth	and	ask	for	feedback	because	you	know	it's	the	fastest	path	to	get	you where	you	want	to	go.

## UNDERSTAND	YOURSELF	AT	YOUR	BEST	AND	WORST (p101)

Beyond	strengths	and	weaknesses,	the	next	part	of	understanding	yourself	is knowing	which	environments	help	you	to	do	your	best	work	and	which situations	trigger	a	negative	reaction.	This	helps	you	design	your	day-to-day	to respond	to	your	needs.
Over	the	years,	here's	what	I've	learned	about	what	enables	me	to	be	my	best:
I've	received	at	least	eight	hours	of	sleep	the	night	before.
I've	done	something	productive	early	in	the	day,	which	motivates	me	to keep	the	momentum	going.
I	know	what	my	desired	outcome	looks	like	before	I	start.
I	have	trust	and	camaraderie	with	the	people	I	work	with.
I'm	able	to	process	information	alone	(and	through	writing)	before	big discussions	or	decisions.
Once	I	understood	those	facts,	I	was	able	to	change	a	few	habits	to	make	it easier	for	me	to	operate	in	my	ideal	environment.	Here	are	some	examples:
I	set	up	multiple	'prepare	for	bed'	alarms	at	10:00	p.m.,	10:15	p.m.,	and 10:30	p.m.	so	that	my	head	can	hit	the	pillow	at	11:00	p.m.	sharp.
I	exercise	for	ten	to	fifteen	minutes	in	the	morning	right	after	I	wake	up.	It's not	much,	but	it	gives	me	a	sense	of	accomplishment	that	anchors	the	rest	of the	day.
I	schedule	half	an	hour	of	'daily	prep'	into	my	calendar	so	I	can	study	my day	and	visualize	how	I	want	each	meeting	or	work	task	to	go.
I	make	an	effort	to	become	friends	with	my	colleagues	and	learn	about	their lives	outside	of	work.
I	schedule	'thinking	time'	blocks	on	my	calendar	so	I	can	sort	through	and write	down	my	thoughts	on	big	problems.
Twice	a	year,	I	look	back	on	the	past	six	months	and	reflect	on	what	I've gotten	better	at.	Then,	I	set	new	learning	goals	for	the	next	six	months.
These	little	habits	have	given	me	a	greater	sense	of	control.	They're	not perfect	by	any	means-even	with	adequate	sleep	and	exercise	I	still	end	some days	feeling	drained.	Meetings	and	tasks	don't	always	go	the	way	I	plan. Sometimes,	days	(or	weeks)	will	pass	when	my	'thinking	time'	gets	whittled	to nothing.	But	these	steps,	as	small	as	they	are,	make	a	difference	in	how	well	I work	and	think. Other	people	have	entirely	different	preferences	for	what	helps	them	do	their best	work.	One	of	my	friends	is	a	morning	person-she	wakes	up	every	day	at 5:00	a.m.	and	her	first	few	hours	of	the	day	are	her	most	productive.	She	tackles her	hardest	problems	then	and	saves	the	less	intensive	tasks	for	the	afternoon. Another	friend	tries	to	arrange	his	calendar	so	that	he	has	to	do	as	little	context switching	as	possible.	All	his	meetings	and	calls	are	chunked	together	back-toback	so	that	he	can	have	long,	uninterrupted	blocks	before	and	after. If	you're	not	sure	what	your	ideal	environment	looks	like,	ask	yourself	the following:
Which	six-month	period	of	my	life	did	I	feel	the	most	energetic	and productive?	What	gave	me	that	energy?
In	the	past	month,	what	moments	stand	out	as	highlights?	What	conditions enabled	those	moments	to	happen,	and	are	they	re-creatable?
In	the	past	week,	when	was	I	in	a	state	of	deep	focus?	How	did	I	get	there?
The	flip	side	of	the	coin	is	understanding	which	situations	do	the	oppositethat	is,	they	trigger	an	intensely	negative	reaction	that	derails	your	effectiveness. What	separates	triggers	from	normal	negative	reactions	is	that	they	have	an outsize	effect	on you specifically.	For	example,	any	manager	would	feel disappointed	if	a	promising	candidate	turned	down	an	offer	or	if	a	star	employee handed	in	a	resignation	letter.	The	more	interesting	question	is:	What	are	the things	that	push your buttons,	but	maybe	not	someone	else's?	That's	when you're	most	at	risk	of	being	seen	as	irrational. One	of	my	triggers,	for	instance,	is	injustice.	If	something	doesn't	seem	fair, my	blood	pressure	rises	and	my	heart	starts	to	pound.	I'll	make	a	mountain	out of	a	molehill	by	stubbornly	arguing	the	point	with	others,	even	if	I	don't	have	all the	information.	As	you	might	guess,	this	doesn't	always	lead	to	the	most productive	discussions. By	knowing	what	triggers	you,	you	can	catch	yourself	in	the	moment	and take	a	step	back	before	responding	like	a	hothead.	If	I	take	even	five	minutes	to calm	down,	I'm	back	to	being	even-keeled. It's	helpful	to	share	your	triggers	and	learn	what	other	people's	are.	Because we're	all	wired	differently,	your	peers	may	not	be	aware	of	how	their	behavior	is affecting	you,	and	vice	versa. I	once	had	a	colleague	who	would	speak	on	behalf	of	his	entire	team	in executive	reviews,	including	areas	beyond	his	expertise.	My	fairness	trigger would	flare	whenever	he	opened	his	mouth. It	seems	really	inconsiderate	of	him to	not	have	his	teammates	speak	to	their	areas	of	expertise ,	I	thought . When	I privately	told	him	this,	he	looked	surprised	but	thanked	me	for	the	feedback.	It had	never	occurred	to	him	that	he	might	come	off	as	trying	to	take	credit	for others'	work.	He	thought	he	was	helping	the	review	run	more	efficiently. Afterward,	he	made	it	a	practice	to	shine	the	spotlight	on	others	whenever	he could. Some	people	are	triggered	by	those	who	come	off	as	arrogant	or	self-serving. Others	get	antsy	when	a	tiny	detail	isn't	perfect.	Maybe	you	recoil	when someone	says	something	in	an	aggressive	or	overly	dramatic	manner,	or	your temper	flares	when	a	team	member	takes	days	to	respond	to	your	messages. Triggers	occupy	the	space	between	your	growth	area	and	somebody	else'syou	could	work	on	controlling	your	reactions,	but	the	other	person	could	also benefit	from	hearing	your	feedback. To	figure	out	what	your	triggers	are,	ask	yourself	the	following	questions:
When	was	the	last	time	someone	said	something	that	annoyed	me	more than	it	did	others	around	me?	Why	did	I	feel	so	strongly	about	it?
What	would	my	closest	friends	say	my	pet	peeves	are?
Who	have	I	met	that	I've	immediately	been	wary	of?	What	made	me	feel that	way?
What's	an	example	of	a	time	when	I've	overreacted	and	later	regretted	it? What	made	me	so	worked	up	in	that	moment?
Knowing	what	lifts	you	up	or	brings	you	down	is	enormously	valuable.	Like how	athletes	have	structured	diet	and	exercise	regimens	to	keep	them	competing in	peak	condition,	the	work	you	do	to	help	yourself	operate	at	your	best	will	lead to	many	more	winning	days	on	the	job.

## FINDING	YOUR	CONFIDENCE	WHEN	YOU'RE	IN	THE	PIT (p103)

No	matter	the	twists	and	turns	of	your	managerial	road,	on	some	days	you	will feel	the	imposter	syndrome	so	strongly	that	you	might	as	well	be	stuck	at	the bottom	of	a	dark,	deep	pit.	Every	manager	I	know	is	well	acquainted	with	this place,	where	the	scathing	commentary	of	your	inner	critic	echoes	off	the	sheer walls,	turning	whispers	into	screams. In	the	Pit,	you	feel	so	very	alone.	Doubt	is	your	soundtrack	and	fear	is	your sustenance.	You	second-guess	every	decision	as	you	search	desperately	for something	solid	to	grasp.	All	you	want	is	faith	restored-that	you'll	know	where to	go	and	what	you	should	do.	But	you	just	can't	find	a	way	out. I	found	myself	in	the	Pit	when	a	new	colleague	and	I	started	working	together on	an	important	initiative.	Right	from	the	start,	we	butted	heads	on	the	product strategy.	Both	of	us	were	so	convinced	we	were	right	that	every	decision	felt	like a	giant	wave	crashing	on	the	flimsy	sandcastle	of	our	working	relationship.	I remember	us	sending	long	emails	back	and	forth	about	minor	product	details. Running	through	it	all	was	an	undercurrent	of	mistrust-accusations	of:	'You aren't	listening,'	'You	don't	know	what	you're	talking	about,'	and	'It's	my decision,	not	yours.' I	felt	terrible.	I	knew	our	relationship	needed	to	improve,	but	how?	Was	I	the one	in	the	wrong?	Maybe	I	really	didn't	know	what	I	was	talking	about. Looking	back	on	that	time	now,	I	can	see	that	my	doubts	got	the	better	of	me. I	learned	a	lot	through	that	tough	collaboration	and	emerged	with	a	better	tool	kit for	escaping	the	Pit.	If	you	find	yourself	in	that	same	place,	read	on	for	tips	on how	best	to	manage	your	mental	state.

## Don't	Beat	Yourself	Up	for	Feeling	Bad (p104)

One	of	the	worst	parts	of	being	in	the	Pit	is	the	double	whammy	of	struggling with	something and worrying	about	the	fact	that	you're	struggling	with	it. Why	is this	even	hard	for	me? your	internal	critic	might	wail. If	I	were	smarter	or	braver or	more	talented,	I'd	be	fine .	By	feeling	guilty	about	the	way	you	feel,	you're creating	even	more	stress	for	yourself. Recognize	that	everyone	in	the	world	goes	through	hard	times,	and	give yourself	permission	to	worry.	Don't	pay	the	double	tax	on	your	mental	load.	I've found	two	tactics	that	help:	The	first	is	conjuring	up	a	public	figure	you	admire, someone	who	seems	to	have	the	perfect	life,	and	Googling	'[person's	name] struggle.'	There	is	always	a	story.	It's	a	good	reminder	that	being	in	the	Pit	is universal.
The	second	tactic	is	to	admit	that	you're	feeling	bad.	I'll	take	out	a	Post-it note	and	write,	'I	am	super	stressed	out	about	X.'	That	little	act	shifts	my mindset	from	worrying	about	my	worries	to	simply	declaring	them.	Once	I	do that,	I	can	start	to	make	progress	on	addressing	the	root	cause.

## Repeat	After	Me:	'The	Story	I	Have	in	My	Head	Is	Probably Irrational' (p105)

Remember	how	we're	all	biased?	Part	of	the	reason	bias	exists	is	that	our	brains are	wired	to	take	shortcuts	so	we	can	arrive	at	faster	conclusions.	That's	why stereotypes	exist.	If	you	see	a	person	wearing	thick	glasses	shuffling	along	with a	stack	of	textbooks,	you	might	conclude	that	she's	good	at	math,	even	if	you have	no	concrete	evidence. This	also	happens	with	how	we	perceive	events.	When	we	gather	a	few	data points,	we'll	try	to	construct	a	complete	narrative	around	it	despite	not	actually having	all	the	facts.	And	when	we're	in	the	Pit,	our	story	tends	to	be	the	worstcase	scenario. For	example,	let's	say	you've	been	struggling	with	imposter	syndrome	and you	discover	you	were	left	out	of	a	meeting.	You	might	conclude: I	wasn't invited	because	my	teammates	don't	think	I'm	valuable. This	example	is	so	common	that	I've	had	at	least	a	dozen	people	come	to	me over	the	years	with	this	concern.	'Let's	get	to	the	bottom	of	this,'	I'll	say.	So	I'll reach	out	to	the	meeting	organizers	and	ask,	'Hey,	why	wasn't	X	invited	to	this meeting?'	These	are	the	top	responses	I	get	back:
I	didn't	want	to	waste	X's	time	and	make	him	feel	obligated	to	attend.
I	didn't	realize	X	cared	about	the	meeting	topic.
Only	once	has	the	answer	been	in	the	ballpark	of	'We	didn't	think	X	would be	valuable.'	(It	was	phrased	as	'We	were	worried	X's	strong	views	would	steer the	conversation	off	course.') The	stories	we	tell	ourselves	from	a	few	scant	pieces	of	evidence	are	often flat-out	wrong,	especially	when	we're	in	the	Pit.	Nine	times	out	of	ten,	the	other person	is	not	out	to	get	you.	Your	coworkers	don't	think	you're	an	idiot.	And, yes,	you	deserve	this	job.
When	a	negative	story	takes	hold	of	you,	step	back	and	question	whether your	interpretation	is	correct.	Are	there	alternative	views	you're	not	considering? What	can	you	do	to	seek	out	the	truth? Sometimes,	just	squaring	your	shoulders	and	asking,	'Why	wasn't	I	invited	to that	meeting?'	gets	you	out	of	speculation	and	into	clarification.	Even	if	you're afraid	of	the	answer,	confronting	reality	is	always	better	than	spinning	disaster	in your	head.

## Close	Your	Eyes	and	Visualize (p106)

Brain	imaging	studies	show	that	when	we	picture	ourselves	doing	something,	the same	parts	of	our	brain	are	engaged	as	if	we	were actually doing	that	activity. Why	does	this	matter?	Because	we	can	trick	ourselves	into	getting	some	of	the benefits	of	an	activity	simply	by	closing	our	eyes	and	imagining	it	in	our	heads. Australian	psychologist	Alan	Richardson	discovered	that	a	group	of basketball	players	who	were	instructed	to	visualize	themselves	making	free throws	every	day	but	who	did	not	physically	practice	did	almost	as	well	as another	group	who	practiced	shooting	free	throws	for	twenty	minutes	a	day. Another	study	compared	people	who	went	to	the	gym	every	day	with	people who	imagined	themselves	working	out.	The	group	who	went	to	the	gym	every day	increased	their	muscle	strength	by	30	percent;	the	group	who	ran	through	the workout	in	their	heads	increased	their	strength	by	13.5	percent-almost	half	the benefit! The	legendary	golfer	Jack	Nicklaus	once	wrote,	'I	never	hit	a	shot,	even	in practice,	without	having	a	very	sharp,	in-focus	picture	of	it	in	my	head.	It's	like	a color	movie.' Not	only	can	visualization	improve	your	outcomes,	it	can	also	help	you	find confidence	when	you're	in	the	Pit.	If	you're	feeling	stuck,	here	are	some exercises	to	try:
Imagine	the	anxiety,	fear,	and	confusion	you're	feeling	as	not	being personal	to	you,	but	universal	things	that	everyone	faces. One	example	I think	of	is	Sheryl	Sandberg	admitting	in	her	book Lean	In that	she	was	so worried	what	her	colleagues	might	think	of	her	leaving	work	at	5:00	p.m. that	she'd	sneakily	exit	the	building	when	no	one	was	watching.	Another example	is	Reese	Witherspoon	confessing	that	she	almost	didn't	accept	an offer	to	be	an	ambassador	of	women's	issues	because	she	was	terrified	of giving	speeches	in	front	of	large	audiences.	Both	of	these	women	are incredibly	successful	and	inspiring	role	models.	And	yet,	they	face	the same	doubts	I	do	because	these	emotions	are	perfectly	human.
Imagine	yourself	succeeding	wildly	at	something	you're	nervous	about. Got	a	big	presentation	tomorrow?	Imagine	yourself	walking	into	the	room and	flashing	a	smile	at	the	audience.	Picture	yourself	standing	tall	and speaking	with	poise.	See	the	crowd	attentive	and	nodding	along	as someone	asks	a	hard	question	and	you	answer	it	confidently.	The	key	to successful	visualization	is	to	make	the	scene	as	specific	as	possible.

## Imagine	a	time	in	the	past	when	you	took	on	a	hard	challenge	and	knocked (p107)

it	out	of	the	park. Now	step	through	that	entire	experience	in	vivid	detail. Remember	how	daunting	that	challenge	first	seemed?	Walk	through	how you	approached	the	problem.	Recall	the	moment	you	realized	you	were going	to	be	fine.	Linger	in	particular	on	that	feeling	of	success	at	the	very end-the	pride	you	felt,	the	compliments	you	received,	the	confidence	you gained.
Imagine	a	room	full	of	your	favorite	people	telling	you	what	they	love about	you. Picture	them	gathered	in	a	circle,	each	person	going	turn	by turn	and	pouring	out	their	love	and	admiration	for	you.	I	like	to	go	back	to the	speeches	from	family	and	friends	on	my	wedding	day,	remembering how	wonderful	it	felt	to	bask	in	their	affection.
Imagine	what	your	day	would	feel	like	if	you	were	out	of	the	Pit. Close your	eyes	and	run	through	each	hour	on	your	calendar.	Focus	on	the mental	state	you'd	like	to	be	in-for	example,	energetic	during	your morning	workout,	full	and	satisfied	after	your	scrambled	egg	breakfast, friendly	as	you	enter	the	office	saying	hello	to	people,	engaged	during your	first	meeting,	etc.
Visualization	is	a	powerful	tool	that	doesn't	require	much-only	a	few minutes	and	a	quiet	spot	to	relax.	Develop	the	habit	to	give	yourself	a	boost	of self-assurance	for	whatever	comes	your	way.

## Ask	for	Help	from	People	You	Can	Be	Real	With (p108)

For	years,	when	I	found	myself	in	the	Pit,	I	bit	my	lip	and	kept	it	to	myself.	As the	saying	goes,	'Fake	it	till	you	make	it,'	so	I	thought	that	by	pretending	I	had everything	under	control,	I'd	eventually	stop	feeling	like	a	fraud,	and	nobody would	be	the	wiser. That	line	of	thinking	was	a	mistake.	I	denied	myself	the	relief	that	comes from	being	able	to	share	my	fears	with	people	I	trust,	and	I	missed	out	on	their empathy	and	advice. Admitting	your	struggles	and	asking	for	help	is	the	opposite	of	weakness-in fact,	it	shows	courage	and	self-awareness.	You	are	saying	that	you	care	more about	getting	yourself	to	a	good	place	than	you	do	about	your	ego.	When	others understand	our	plight,	we	benefit	tremendously.	Research	suggests	that	support groups	are	remarkably	effective,	even	for	serious	mental	health	conditions.	In one	example,	82	percent	of	people	with	manic-depressive	disorder	reported coping	better	with	their	illness	after	joining	a	self-help	group. I've	experienced	this	firsthand	as	well-a	few	years	ago,	I	formed	a	Lean	In Circle	with	a	dozen	other	women	at	the	company.	Two	hours	every	month,	we'd go	around	the	room	and	share	what	we	were	each	grappling	with-difficult relationships,	uncertainty	about	our	careers,	struggles	to	balance	parenthood	with work.	Tears	were	not	uncommon	because	some	of	the	challenges	were	truly hard.	But	I	will	never	forget	the	warmth	and	camaraderie	and	how	much	that support	meant	to	us.	Where	we	could,	we	gave	each	other	help	and	advice,	and where	we	couldn't,	we'd	still	offer	our	hugs	and	sympathetic	ears. Whether	it's	with	your	family,	your	best	friend,	a	coach,	or	a	group	of	trusted colleagues,	find	your	support	group.	Use	them	as	your	cheerleaders	and sounding	board.	No	(wo)man	is	an	island,	and	our	community	can	light	a	path and	lend	a	hand	for	us	in	our	climb	out	of	the	Pit.

## Celebrate	the	Little	Wins (p108)

When	you're	in	the	Pit,	you	constantly	pore	over	your	failures	because	you're questioning	whether	or	not	you	have	what	it	takes	to	succeed.	One	way	to	break out	of	that	negative	cycle	is	to	tell	yourself	a	different	story.	Instead	of	thinking, What	am	I	not	doing	well?, focus	on	all	the	ways	you're	winning. During	a	particularly	difficult	period	at	work,	I	shared	with	a	colleague	how underwater	I	felt-I	couldn't	hire	fast	enough	to	keep	up	with	all	the	projects that	needed	design	leadership,	so	every	day	I	felt	the	pressure	of	being	the bottleneck.	She	reminded	me	that	as	tough	as	things	were,	not	everything	I	was doing	was	a	failure.	In	fact,	one	of	my	recent	blog	posts	had	really	struck	a	chord with	her,	and	she'd	shared	it	with	her	entire	team.	'We	got	a	lot	out	of	it,'	she said,	'so	thank	you	for	writing	it.' Her	words	left	a	big	impression.	I	realized	I	had	come	to	view	my	writing	as well	as	the	many	other	responsibilities	I	had-reviewing	design	work,	coaching, operational	planning-as	routine	rather	than	valuable. Inspired	by	that	conversation,	I	started	a	journal	called Little	Wins .	Every	day, I'd	jot	down	something	I	did	that	I	was	proud	of,	even	if	it	was	small. Sometimes,	I'd	celebrate	a	1:1	where	I	gave	someone	helpful	advice.	Other	days, I	gave	myself	credit	for	running	a	productive	meeting.	Once,	on	a	particularly tough	day,	I	wrote	down	that	I	had	managed	to	respond	promptly	to	a	few emails. Studies	show	that	if	you	write	down	five	things	you're	grateful	for	every night,	you'll	feel	happier	in	the	long	run.	When	you	need	to	build	your confidence,	remember	to	do	the	same	by	focusing	on	all	the	things	that	you	are doing	well.

## Practice	Self-Care	by	Establishing	Boundaries (p109)

When	your	work	life	overwhelms	you,	it	can	easily	seep	into	everything.	Maybe you're	so	stressed	out	about	a	project	that	you	end	up	working	nights	and weekends.	Or	you	can't	stop	thinking	about	your	to-do	list	even	when	the	rest	of the	world	is	asleep. Resist	this.	Set	boundaries	by	carving	out	time	for	the	other	important	aspects of	your	life-spending	time	with	loved	ones,	pursuing	hobbies,	exercising, giving	back	to	your	community,	etc.	In	study	after	study,	high	workplace	stress has	been	shown	to	inhibit	creativity,	whereas	'when	people	were	feeling	more positive,	they	were	more	likely	to	be	creative,'	says	Teresa	Amabile,	Harvard Business	School	professor	and	author	of The	Progress	Principle . In	my	busiest	periods,	one	exercise	I	turn	to	is	scheduling	a	fifteen-minute activity	at	the	beginning	and	end	of	the	day	that	isn't	related	to	work.	I'll	watch	a TED	Talk,	play	an	iPhone	game,	do	a	crossword	puzzle,	exercise,	or	read.	It's not	a	lot	of	time,	but	it	helps	me	draw	a	line	in	the	sand	that	says,	'No	matter what,	I'll	always	make	some	time	for	me.' You	can't	do	your	best	work	unless	you	physically	feel	your	best,	so	take	care of	yourself.	It's	always	worth	it.

## LEARNING	TO	BE	TWICE	AS	GOOD (p110)

Five	years	ago,	I	remember	lying	in	bed	at	3:00	a.m.	before	a	big	talk.	My	mind was	furiously	racing	through	the	slides.	My	stomach	was	lurching	like	I	was sailing	on	a	storm-ridden	sea.	I	thought	of	my	favorite	speakers	and	wondered how	they	did	it.	How	amazing	it	must	be,	I	thought,	to	waltz	up	in	front	of hundreds	of	people	and	feel	genuinely	excited	instead	of	terrified.	To	actually sleep the	night	before	and	not	worry	about	covering	up	under-eye	circles	the	next day. Fast-forward	to	this	year.	I'm	lounging	backstage	at	a	conference	an	hour before	I'm	scheduled	to	present	in	front	of	thousands.	Another	speaker	in	the room	paces	back	and	forth,	fidgeting	with	a	notecard	as	he	recites	the	opening lines	to	his	talk.	At	one	point	he	looks	at	me,	smiles	weakly,	and	says,	'You	look as	cool	as	a	cucumber.'	It	was	a	tremendous	compliment.	And	he	was	right-I wasn't	nervous	at	all.	My	sleep	the	night	before	was	long	and	luxurious.	And	I was genuinely	excited! So	what	happened	in	those	years?	Did	I	undergo	intense	speaker	training? Did	I	become	a	PowerPoint	and	Keynote	guru?	Did	a	little	fairy	whisper	into	my ear	an	amazing	new	method	to	calm	my	nerves? The	answer	is	predictably	boring.	I	practiced	and	got	better.	There	were	years of	stammering	awkwardly	in	front	of	my	team	during	weekly	meetings.	There were	panels	and	talks	I'd	sign	up	to	do	even	though	I	knew	I'd	dread	it	the	night before.	There	were	press	interviews	and	Q&As,	roundtables	and	TV appearances.	Each	one	made	the	next	a	tad	bit	easier. Management	is	a	highly	personal	journey.	We	are	all	at	different	points	on	our path.	Some	of	us	start	out	stronger	at	certain	skills	than	others.	I	was	an	introvert with	a	tendency	to	freeze	up	or	ramble	in	front	of	large	groups.	I'm	no exceptional	orator	today,	but	I've	come	a	long	way	in	both	my	skills	and	my confidence. How	you	can	be	most	effective	will	depend	a	lot	on	you:	your	strengths	and growth	areas,	your	personality	and	values.	It	will	also	depend	on	your organization's	goals	and	culture-a	small	lemonade	stand	with	a	few	employees needs	different	things	than	a	large	organization	with	tens	of	thousands	of	people. The	nature	of	this	individual	path	means	that	most	of	your	learning	will happen	on	the	job.	Whether	you	need	to	improve	your	communication,	get	better at	execution,	become	more	strategic,	or	work	better	with	others,	set	a	lofty	goal for	yourself: How	can	I	be	twice	as	good? Then	maximize	your	learning	through the	following.

## Ask	for	Feedback (p111)

After	an	entire	chapter	on	the	importance	of	giving	feedback	to	your	reports, surely	this	comes	as	no	surprise:	if	there	is	a	secret	sauce	to	self-improvement, it's	to	ask	for	feedback	from	other	people all	the	time .	The	only	hurdle	you	need to	overcome	is	yourself-can	you	remember	to	ask	frequently	enough?	Can	you be	humble	and	self-aware	enough	to	hear	it	openly	and	then	respond	with	real change? Remember	to	ask	for	both	task-specific	and	behavioral	feedback.	The	more concrete	you	are	about	what	you	want	to	know,	the	better.	If	you	lead	with,	'Hey, how	do	you	think	my	presentation	went?'	you'll	probably	hear	responses	like	'I think	it	went	well,'	which	aren't	particularly	helpful.	Instead,	probe	at	the specifics	and	make	it	easy	for	someone	to	tell	you	something	actionable.	'I'm working	on	making	sure	my	point	is	clear	in	the	first	three	minutes.	Did	that come	across?	How	can	I	make	it	clearer	next	time?' Always	thank	people	for	feedback.	Even	if	you	don't	agree	with	what's	said, receive	it	graciously	and	recognize	that	it	took	effort	to	give.	If	others	find	you defensive,	you'll	get	less	feedback	in	the	future,	which	will	only	hurt	your growth.

## Treat	Your	Manager	as	a	Coach (p111)

Given	what	we've	discussed	about	the	role	of	managers,	your	own	boss	should be	one	of	your	best	sources	of	learning.	But	this	might	not	naturally	be	the	case. Maybe	he	doesn't	see	the	day-to-day	of	your	work,	or	he's	busy	putting	out	other fires,	or	he	simply	isn't	as	proactive	about	helping	to	guide	your	path	as	you'd like. Regardless,	the	person	most	invested	in	your	career	isn't	him;	it's you .	Your own	growth	is	in	your	hands,	so	if	you	feel	you	aren't	learning	from	your manager,	ask	yourself	what	you	can	do	to	get	the	relationship	that	you	want. One	of	the	biggest	barriers	I've	found	is	that	people	shy	away	from	asking their	managers	for	help.	I	know	that	feeling	well;	for	years,	I	held	the	mental model	that	my	boss-like	my	teachers	and	professors	of	the	past-was	someone in	a	position	of	authority	who	took	note	of	what	I	did	and	passed	judgment	on	it.
As	such,	how	I	interacted	with	my	manager	could	be	summarized	in	one	neat statement: Don't	mess	it	up .	I	considered	it	a	failure	if	my	manager	had	to	get involved	in	something	I	was	responsible	for.	It	felt	to	me	like	the	equivalent	of	a blinking	neon	sign	that	read, Warning:	employee	not	competent	enough	to	take care	of	task	on	her	own. But	we	know	by	now	that	a	manager's	job	is	to	help	her	team	get	better results.	When	you	do	better,	by	extension,	she	does	better.	Hence,	your	manager is	someone	who	is	on	your	side,	who	wants	you	to	succeed,	and	who	is	usually willing	to	invest	her	time	and	energy	into	helping	you.	The	key	is	to	treat	your manager	as	a	coach,	not	as	a	judge. Can	you	imagine	a	star	athlete	trying	to	hide	his	weaknesses	from	his	coach? Would	you	tell	a	personal	trainer,	'Oh,	I'm	pretty	fit,	I've	got	it	under	control,' when	she	asks	you	how	she	can	help	you	achieve	a	better	workout?	Of	course not.	That	is	not	how	a	coaching	relationship	works. Instead,	engage	your	manager	for	feedback.	Ask,	'What	skills	do	you	think	I should	work	on	in	order	to	have	more	impact?'	Share	your	personal	goals	and enlist	his	help:	'I	want	to	learn	to	become	a	better	presenter,	so	I'd	be	grateful	if you	kept	an	eye	out	for	opportunities	where	I	can	get	in	front	of	others . '	Tell	him your	hard	problems	so	he	can	help	you	work	through	them:	'I'm	making	a	hiring call	between	two	candidates	with	different	strengths.	Can	I	walk	you	through	my thinking	and	get	your	advice?' When	I	started	to	see	1:1s	with	my	manager	as	an	opportunity	for	focused learning,	I	got	so	much	more	out	of	it.	Even	when	I'm	not	grappling	with	a problem,	asking	open-ended	questions	like,	'How	do	you	decide	which	meetings to	attend?'	or	'How	do	you	approach	selling	a	candidate?'	takes	advantage	of my	manager's	know-how	and	teaches	me	something	new.

## Make	a	Mentor	Out	of	Everyone (p112)

There's	no	rule	that	says	you	can	have	only	one	coach.	In	fact,	the	world	is	full of	people	who	can	teach	us.	That's	what	a	mentor	is-someone	who	shares	her expertise	to	help	you	improve.	It	doesn't	need	to	be	more	formal	than	that. Sheryl	Sandberg,	in	her	book Lean	In ,	cautions	against	treating	the	notion	of	a mentor	as	something	too	precious.	Nobody	wants	to	be	asked,	'Will	you	be	my mentor?'	because	it	sounds	needy	and	time-consuming.	But	ask	for specific advice	instead,	and	you'll	find	tons	of	people	willing	to	help.
In	particular,	people	in	your	peer	group-those	with	a	similar	job	to	yourscan	be	an	excellent	source	of	support	and	advice.	I	have	a	group	of	design manager	friends	whom	I	see	every	few	months.	Because	we	have	similar responsibilities,	we	can	discuss	trends	in	the	market,	commiserate	over	shared challenges,	and	swap	advice	on	how	we	handle	critiques	or	host	workshops. One	of	these	friends	is	a	fantastic	culture	builder.	She	is	able	to	cultivate	a sense	of	warmth,	camaraderie,	and	caring	on	her	team	that	I	really	admire.	Over the	years,	I've	asked	her	dozens	of	questions	on	how	she	does	it-how	does	she run	her	meetings?	What	tools	does	she	use	to	communicate	with	her	broader team?	How	does	she	manage	to	extend	that	sense	of	connection	across	remote offices?	Her	answers	have	directly	shaped	how	I	run	my	team.	For	example,	I hold	weekly	office-hour	blocks	as	a	result	of	a	direct	tip	from	her. Even	when	they	don't	have	the	same	job	as	you,	the	people	you	work	with probably	all	have	something	valuable	to	teach	you.	Maybe	one	colleague	is	an exceptional	recruiter.	Maybe	another	is	really	good	at	selling	her	ideas.	Maybe your	report	is	the	most	creative	person	you	know.	Maybe	your	manager	has	a keen	ability	to	spot	the	best	in	everyone. Whatever	the	skill,	don't	be	afraid	to	ask,	'Hey,	I'm	really	impressed	with	the way	you	[do	X] . I'd	love	to	learn	from	you.	Would	you	be	willing	to	grab	a coffee	with	me	and	share	your	approach?' Keep	in	mind	that	since	you're	asking	for	a	favor,	it's	well	within	people's rights	to	say	no	because	they're	busy	or	unsure	of	how	to	help.	Thank	them anyway.	But	more	often	than	you	might	think,	the	answer	will	be	yes . We've	all benefited	from	the	mentorship	of	others,	so	many	people	are	happy	to	pay	it forward.

## Set	Aside	Time	to	Reflect	and	Set	Goals (p113)

When	you're	racing	full	steam	ahead	and	the	scenery	is	zooming	past	you,	it's hard	to	comprehend	the	entirety	of	your	journey.	Where	did	you	start?	How	far	is there	to	go?	Which	parts	were	smooth	and	which	were	filled	with	potholes? A	study	from	Harvard	Business	School	shows	that	we	learn	more	when	we couple	our	experiences	with	periodic	reflections.	Even	though	people	prefer	to learn	by	doing,	'participants	who	chose	to	reflect	outperformed	those	who	chose additional	experience.' Reflection	doesn't	have	to	be	some	kind	of	heavy	process.	At	the	end	of	the day,	you're	doing	it	for	your	own	benefit,	so	find	what	works	best	for	you.
Personally,	I	like	to	schedule	an	hour	on	my	calendar	at	the	end	of	every	week	to think	about	what	I	accomplished,	what	I'm	satisfied	or	dissatisfied	with,	and what	I'm	taking	away	for	next	week.	I	then	jot	down	some	notes	in	an	email	to my	team,	as	an	easy	way	to	keep	up	the	habit. I	also	set	personal	goals	and	do	bigger	look-backs	every	six	months,	which gives	me	a	longer	time	frame	to	tackle	ambitious	projects	and	learn	new	skills. Here	are	examples	of	what	my	one-week	and	six-month	notes	look	like:

## THOUGHTS	ON	MY	WEEK: (p114)

Recent	feedback	I	heard:	Through	my	Q&As,	I'm	hearing	a	lot	of	praise	for our	design	team	culture,	which	is	awesome.	On	what	we	could	be	doing better,	the	top	theme	was	clarifying	expectations	for	career	growth.	I'm taking	away	that	we	need	to	get	more	buttoned-up	on	how	we	talk	about assessing	performance	and	promotions.
Recruiting	for	next	year:	In	our	planning	meeting,	remote	office	growth came	up	as	a	big	theme.	We	will	need	to	train	more	interviewers	and	make sure	our	debriefs	are	consistent	across	offices.	I'm	counting	on	all	of	us	to be	heavily	involved,	and	we're	getting	a	plan	together	for	what	that	looks like.
Strategy	for	Project	X:	I	worked	with	Team	Y	to	prepare	our	proposals	for the	upcoming	review.	This	came	a	long	way	in	a	few	short	weeks-shout-out to	Elena	in	particular	for	her	great	work	here.
Understanding	research	needs:	In	my	1:1s,	I've	been	hearing	asks	for	more research	involvement.	I	have	a	better	sense	of	what	we're	looking	for	now, and	David	and	I	will	share	a	staffing	plan	in	the	next	two	weeks.

## GOALS	FOR	THE	NEXT	SIX	MONTHS: (p114)

Build	out	my	bench:	Fill	three	open	roles	to	ensure	that	every	product	has	a strong	leader.
Evolve	all	product	reviews	to	start	with	clearly	defined	people	problems	so we	have	a	common	basis	for	evaluation.
Become	an	expert	in	hiring	great	research	leaders.
Get	rid	of	status	updates	in	my	1:1s:	Use	that	time	to	have	deeper conversations	with	my	reports.
Don't	bring	work	home	with	me:	Focus	on	being	more	efficient	in	the	office.
At	the	end	of	every	six	months,	I'll	pull	up	my	goals	and	evaluate	how	I	did. The	important	thing	isn't	the	grade	but	what	I	learned.	If	I	didn't	succeed	at getting	everyone	to	frame	their	work	differently,	why	was	that?	Were	my	tactics ineffective?	Did	I	not	communicate	things	clearly?	Were	they	simply	not important? If	I	did	hit	a	goal-say,	hiring	three	strong	leaders-there	are	lessons	to	be had	as	well.	What	allowed	me	to	be	successful?	Would	I	be	able	to	take	on	even more	ambitious	goals	in	the	future,	say,	hiring	five	leaders?	What	tips	might	I give	to	someone	else	looking	to	do	the	same	thing? The	more	your	experiences-good	or	bad-get	shaped	into	lessons	and stories	that	help	you	and	others,	the	faster	your	growth	trajectory.

## Take	Advantage	of	Formal	Training (p115)

If	you	have	the	opportunity	to	get	formal	training,	take	it.	This	might	mean signing	up	for	a	company	seminar,	attending	an	industry	conference, participating	in	a	roundtable	discussion,	hearing	experts	on	a	panel,	or	engaging in	a	hands-on	workshop. It	might	seem	obvious	that	formal	training	is	helpful,	but	it	also	rarely	feels urgent	or	necessary.	Besides	costing	time,	it	also	tends	to	cost	money,	which means	we	engage	in	a	classic	back-and-forth	with	ourselves: Is	it	worth	it? Especially	in	the	middle	of	a	hectic	week,	is	it	really	a	good	idea	to	step	away	for a	two-day	workshop	or	to	give	up	a	relaxing	evening	at	home	for	a	lecture? The	answer	is	usually	yes.	If	spending	ten	hours	being	trained	helps	you	be even	1	percent	more	efficient	at	your	job,	then	it's	a	good	return	on	investment (1	percent	of	time	saved	per	year	is	about	twenty	hours). I	remember	taking	a	one-day	class	several	years	ago	on	how	to	have	hard conversations.	Those	eight	hours	transformed	the	way	I	approached	conflict.	I left	with	a	newfound	belief	that,	yes,	it is possible	to	have	a	productive conversation	with	anyone	about	anything.	Even	now,	not	a	single	week	goes	by where	I	don't	call	to	mind	something	I	took	away	from	that	course. Another	type	of	formal	training	is	professional	coaching.	You	will	likely	need to	pay	for	this	out	of	pocket	unless	your	company	covers	it	(some	do	for	seniorlevel	employees).	Many	CEOs	and	executives	work	with	professional	coaches because,	at	that	level,	there	are	fewer	people	who	can	naturally	serve	as	mentors, and	even	small	improvements	in	performance	translate	to	significant	impact	for the	organization.
When	you	think	about	formal	training,	the	question	to	ask	isn't Is	this	worth doing	right	now	given	all	the	other	things	on	my	plate	(or	all	the	other	things	I could	spend	money	on), but	rather One	year	from	now,	will	I	be	happy	I	did	this? When	framed	that	way,	the	choice	tends	to	be	clearer. When	you	invest	in	your	personal	learning	and	growth,	you're	not	just investing	in	your	own	future	but	also	the	future	of	your	team.	The	better	you	are, the	more	you're	able	to	support	others.
New	managers	sometimes	ask	me,	'A	decade	into	the	job,	what's	something you're	still	continuing	to	learn?'	My	answer	is,	'How	to	be	the	best	leader	I	can while	staying	true	to	who	I	am.' Managers	so	often	think	of	the	role	as	being	in	service	to	something	else-the mission	of	the	organization,	the	goals	of	the	team,	the	needs	of	others-that	it's easy	to	forget	about	the	most	important	character	in	your	management	journey: you . Learning	how	to	be	a	great	leader	means	learning	about	your	superpowers and	flaws,	learning	how	to	navigate	the	obstacles	in	your	head,	and	learning	how to	learn.	With	these	tools	comes	the	confidence	that	you're	meant	to	be	here	just as	you	are-no	masks	or	pretenses	needed-and	that	you're	ready	for	whatever challenges	lie	ahead.

## Chapter	Six (p117)


## Amazing	Meetings (p117)

As	my	team	grew, I	thought	it	would	be	a	good	idea	to	host	a	meeting where	everyone	went	around	the	room	and	shared	what	they	were	up	to	that week.	I	had	seen	other	managers	run	similar	status	or	'stand-up'	meetings,	and	I thought	this	was	standard	practice	for	keeping	folks	in	the	loop	about	what	was going	on. The	idea	was	better	in	theory	than	in	practice;	what	I	hadn't	accounted	for was	the	variation	in	how	people	described	their	work.	Some	kept	it	short	and sweet,	while	others	went	into	extreme	detail	about	the	email	debates	they	got into	with	their	engineers	on	Thursday	nights.	After	a	few	months,	it	became clear	that	this	meeting	was	the	work	equivalent	of	a	history	teacher	droning	on about	some	battle	in	the	year	1752.	All	around	me,	I	saw	glazed	eyes	and	heard keyboard tap-tap-tap s	from	those	who	figured	their	time	was	better	spent	doing other	work. After	one	such	session,	I	was	greeted	with	an	email	in	my	inbox	from	a	team member	asking	if	I	had	ever	considered	asking	everyone	to	send	out	email updates	instead	of	waxing	poetic	in	person.	'To	be	honest,	this	meeting	doesn't feel	like	a	good	use	of	time,'	it	concluded. Gutsy	move,	telling	your	manager	her	meeting	sucks.	But	the	feedback	was spot-on.	I	canceled	the	series,	and	we	went	to	weekly	email	updates,	which worked	out	beautifully.	I	left	with	a	deeper	appreciation	of	both	the	importance of	planning	good	meetings	and	the	value	of	giving	feedback	to	improve	bad meetings. I	think	about	meetings	a	lot	because	it's	such	a	huge	part	of	what	I	do.	The majority	of	my	day	is	spent	with	different	sets	of	people	in	1:1s,	small	groups, larger	groups,	and,	occasionally,	audiences	of	hundreds	or	thousands. Meetings	tend	to	have	a	bad	rap,	like	they're	the	'necessary	evil'	of management	or	the	grown-up	equivalent	of	homework.	They're	parodied	as wasteful,	bureaucratic,	and	boring,	though	nobody	seems	to	be	able	to	get	rid	of them	entirely.	And	we	spend	a	lot	of	time	in	them.	A	2011	study	found	that,	on average,	chief	executives	spend	60	percent	of	their	time	in	meetings,	with another	25	percent	spent	on	calls	or	at	public	events.	Another	study	analyzed	a single	executive	meeting	at	a	large	company	and	found	that,	all	told,	it	took 300,000	person-hours	to	prep	for-a	staggering	number! Leo	Tolstoy	begins Anna	Karenina with	the	statement	'Happy	families	are	all alike;	every	unhappy	family	is	unhappy	in	its	own	way.'	Meetings	are	much	the same.	Think	of	all	the	bad	meetings	you	have	attended-the	room	argued	in circles;	you	went	in	for	clarity	and	left	with	confusion;	the	attendees	felt disengaged;	the	content	shared	was	repetitive;	the	group	veered	sharply	off course	from	the	agenda;	an	individual	or	two	dominated	the	room	and	nobody else	could	get	a	word	in;	and	so	on. On	the	other	hand,	good	meetings	are	simple	and	straightforward.	You	leave them	feeling	the	same	way	every	time:
I	learned	something	new	that	will	help	me	be	more	effective	at	my	job.
I	left	with	a	clearer	sense	of	what	I	should	do	next.
At	the	end	of	the	day,	talking	with	someone	face-to-face	is	still	one	of	the best	ways	to	communicate	and	get	work	done.	As	a	manager,	you	will	attend countless	meetings	as	well	as	run	many	of	your	own.	Take	the	responsibility seriously	and	don't	perpetuate	bad	meeting	culture.	Instead,	steer	the	precious time	you	and	your	colleagues	spend	together	toward	what's	truly	valuable.

## WHAT	IS	A	GREAT	OUTCOME	FOR	YOUR	MEETING? (p120)

You	may	hear	the	conventional	wisdom	that	'all	meetings	should	have	a purpose.'	That's	good	advice,	but	it	doesn't	go	far	enough.	My	status	meeting had	a	purpose-keep	everyone	informed	about	the	team's	weekly	progress.	It still	ended	up	lousy	because	I	didn't	ask	myself, What	does	a	great	outcome	look like? If	I	had,	I	would	have	realized	that	what	I	really	wanted	was	for	the	members of	the	team	to	feel	closer	to	each	other	and	collaborate	more	effectively.	Clearly, if	people	were	tuning	out,	I	wasn't	succeeding. There	are	only	a	handful	of	reasons	for	people	to	get	together	in	person,	so being	crystal	clear	about	the	outcome	you're	shooting	for	is	the	first	step	to running	great	meetings.

## Making	a	Decision (p121)

In	a	decision	meeting,	you're	framing	the	different	options	on	the	table	and asking	a	decision-maker	to	make	a	call. Success	here	is	both	getting	to	a	clear	decision and everyone	leaving	with	a sense	of	trust	in	the	process.	You	don't	need	consensus,	but	those	whom	the decision	affects	should	feel	that	the	way	it	was	made	was	efficient	and	fair. If	people	don't	trust	the	process,	you'll	find	that	the	decision	drags	on.	Here's an	example	of	how	I	used	to	fall	into	this	trap: REPORT: Right	now	we're	looking	at	a	deadline	to	finish	our	design	work	by next	Tuesday.	This	is	a	problem	because	it	isn't	enough	time	to	explore	the three	options	we	talked	about.	Are	you	supportive	of	us	moving	the	deadline back	by	a	week? ME: Makes	sense.	I	am	supportive. Do	you	see	the	problem?	I	just	made	a	decision,	but	I	heard	only	one	piece	of context-that	my	report	felt	there	wasn't	enough	time	to	adequately	do	the	work. But	what	are	the	consequences	of	moving	the	deadline	back?	Here's	what	would happen	next: ENGINEERING	MANAGER: Hey,	I	just	heard	that	you	okayed	our	moving	the design	milestone	back.	This	is	a	problem	because	I	have	a	team	of	seven engineers	who	are	waiting	for	the	designs	to	be	finalized,	and	pushing things	back	means	we're	not	going	to	have	enough	time	to	hit	the engineering	milestone.	Can	we	go	back	to	the	original	timeline? Now	I'm	stuck	between	a	rock	and	a	hard	place.	The	engineering	team	is	mad because	they	felt	that	I	made	a	decision	without	hearing	their	side	of	the	story. They	want	me	to	remake	the	decision	with	new	information.	But	if	I	do	that	and change	my	call,	my	report	is	going	to	be	frustrated.	I've	just	lost	myself	some major	credibility.	The	best	thing	I	can	do	now	is	admit	that	I	made	a	mistake with	my	process	and	gather	everyone	for	a	do-over	on	the	decision. 'But	wait	a	minute,'	you	might	say.	'The	two	sides	disagree,	so	any	decision made	is	going	to	leave	someone	unhappy.'
I	challenge	that	notion.	Everyone	on	a	team	ultimately	shares	the	same	goals. In	this	case,	both	designers	and	engineers	want	to	ship	a	great	experience	as	soon as	possible.	While	people	may	have	different	opinions	about	the	best	path	to take,	part	of	working	well	together	is	placing	trust	in	decision-makers	and	in	a fair	process.	As	Amazon	CEO	Jeff	Bezos	is	fond	of	saying,	sometimes	you	have to	'disagree	and	commit'	for	the	sake	of	moving	forward	quickly. A	great	decision-making	meeting	does	the	following:
Includes	the	people	most	directly	affected	by	the	decision	as	well	as	a clearly	designated	decision-maker
Presents	all	credible	options	objectively	and	with	relevant	background information,	and	includes	the	team's	recommendation	if	there	is	one
Gives	equal	airtime	to	dissenting	opinions	and	makes	people	feel	that	they were	heard
Here	are	some	examples	of	bad	outcomes	to	avoid:
People	feel	that	their	side	wasn't	presented	well,	so	they	don't	trust	the resulting	decision.
Decisions	take	a	long	time	to	make,	which	delays	progress.	While	important and	hard-to-reverse	decisions	deserve	deep	consideration,	be	wary	of spending	too	much	time	on	small,	easy-to-reverse	decisions.
Decisions	keep	flip-flopping	back	and	forth,	which	makes	it	hard	to	trust and	act	on	them.
Too	much	time	is	spent	trying	to	get	a	group	to	consensus	rather	than escalating	quickly	to	a	decision-maker.
Time	is	wasted	on	rehashing	the	same	argument	twenty	different	ways.

## Sharing	Information (p122)

We	all	need	information	to	do	our	jobs	well,	whether	it's	the	CEO's	vision,	the latest	sales	figures,	the	opinions	of	various	stakeholders,	or	the	timeline	for	a particular	project.	A	few	decades	ago,	meetings	were	the	primary	way	groups	of people	shared	and	received	information.	Nowadays,	with	email	and	chat	right	at our	fingertips,	it's	less	necessary	(and	often	less	efficient)	for	in-person	gettogethers	solely	focused	on	the	transfer	of	knowledge.
Done	well,	however,	there	are	a	few	big	benefits	of	informational	meetings over	other	channels	like	bulletin	boards,	mailing	lists,	or	group	posts.	The	first	is that	they	allow	for	more	interactivity.	So,	for	example,	if	you	want	everyone	to know	about	a	potentially	controversial	policy	change,	sharing	that	news	in person	allows	the	group	to	ask	questions	or	express	their	reactions. The	second	benefit	is	that	a	well-prepared	informational	meeting	is	usually	a lot	more	interesting	than	a	bunch	of	words	on	a	page.	Eye	contact,	body language,	and	visible	passion	all	help	to	make	a	message	come	alive. Today,	our	design	organization	gets	together	periodically	to	highlight important	work	we're	doing,	share	new	tools	and	processes,	and	discuss	lessons we've	learned.	Unlike	my	discontinued	status	meeting,	this	one	works	because there	is	a	lot	more	preparation	behind	it	to	ensure	the	content	is	interesting. A	great	informational	meeting	accomplishes	the	following:
Enables	the	group	to	feel	like	they	learned	something	valuable
Conveys	key	messages	clearly	and	memorably
Keeps	the	audience's	attention	(through	dynamic	speakers,	rich	storytelling, skilled	pacing,	interactivity)
Evokes	an	intended	emotion-whether	inspiration,	trust,	pride,	courage, empathy,	etc.

## Providing	Feedback (p123)

Often	known	as	a	'review,'	the	purpose	of	a	feedback	meeting	is	for stakeholders	to	understand	and	give	input	on	work	in	progress.	Sometimes,	this might	end	with	an	uneventful	'this	looks	fine.'	Other	times,	the	feedback	can result	in	significant	deviations	from	the	plan. It's	tempting	to	judge	success	on	whether	or	not	the	boss	likes	the	work.	This is	a	mistake.	Feedback	meetings	don't	exist	to	pass	or	receive	judgment	but rather	to	get	to	the	best	outcome.	Gunning	for	approval	creates	incentives	to focus	more	on	the	smoke	and	mirrors	of	the	presentation	than	on	getting	the most	helpful	feedback	to	improve	the	work.
A	great	feedback	meeting	achieves	the	following:
Gets	everyone	on	the	same	page	about	what	success	for	the	project	looks like
Honestly	represents	the	current	status	of	the	work,	including	an	assessment of	how	things	are	going,	any	changes	since	the	last	check-in,	and	what	the future	plans	are
Clearly	frames	open	questions,	key	decisions,	or	known	concerns	to	get	the most	helpful	feedback
Ends	with	agreed-upon	next	steps	(including	when	the	next	milestone	or check-in	will	be)

## Generating	Ideas (p124)

You	might	hear	this	referred	to	as	a	'brainstorming	meeting'	or	a	'working session'	where	a	group	of	people	get	together	to	come	up	with	proposed solutions	to	a	problem.	Brainstorming	was	popularized	in	the	1950s	by	an advertising	executive	named	Alex	Osborn,	who	suggested	that	to	get	more	outof-the-box	thinking,	groups	should	focus	on maximizing	the	quantity	of	ideas and withholding	judgment	of	those	ideas . Unfortunately,	having	twelve	people	in	a	room	blurt	out	whatever	comes	to mind	isn't	actually	effective	for	innovation-we	have	a	tendency	to	conform	our new	ideas	to	what's	already	been	discussed	or	suggest	fewer	ideas	because	we assume	other	people	are	carrying	the	load. The	best	idea	generation	comes	from	understanding	that	we	need both time	to think	alone	(because	our	brains	are	most	creative	when	we're	by	ourselves) and time	to	engage	with	others	(because	hearing	different	perspectives	creates	sparks that	lead	to	even	better	ideas). Preparation	and	good	facilitation	is	key.	A	great	generative	meeting	does	the following:
Produces	many	diverse,	nonobvious	solutions	through	ensuring	each participant	has	quiet	alone	time	to	think	of	ideas	and	write	them	down (either	before	or	during	the	meeting)
Considers	the	totality	of	ideas	from	everyone,	not	just	the	loudest	voices
Helps	ideas	evolve	and	build	off	each	other	through	meaningful	discussion
Ends	with	clear	next	steps	for	how	to	turn	ideas	into	action

## Strengthening	Relationships (p124)

To	have	a	high-functioning	team,	people	need	to	work	well	with	one	another,	so you	need	to	find	ways	to	nurture	empathy,	create	trust,	and	encourage collaboration.	Sometimes,	you	may	decide	to	get	a	group	of	people	together	for the	simple	purpose	of	focusing	on	relationships. Team	lunches,	dinners,	and	other	social	events	serve	this	purpose,	as	do	some 1:1s	and	team	meetings.	When	we	all	understand	each	other	a	little	better	as human	beings-when	we've	invested	time	to	learn	about	our	colleagues'	values, hobbies,	families,	life	stories,	etc.-then	working	together	also	becomes	easier and	more	enjoyable. A	great	team-bonding	meeting	isn't	about	the	number	of	hours	spent	together or	the	lavishness	of	the	event.	Instead,	it	enables	the	following:
Creates	better	understanding	and	trust	between	participants
Encourages	people	to	be	open	and	authentic
Every	meeting	should	be	clear	on	which	of	the	above	it's	trying	to accomplish.	Don't	try	to	make	a	single	meeting	do	too	much,	and	remind	the group	of	its	primary	purpose	when	the	conversation	starts	to	deviate.	For example,	if	you're	looking	for	a	decision	on	pricing,	and	people	start	chiming	in with	suggestions	for	new	features,	say	that	you'll	separately	find	time	to	discuss the	latter	topic,	and	then	steer	the	conversation	back	toward	the	intended	agenda. In	my	experience,	it's	unlikely	that	the	structure	of	a	decision	meeting	makes	it	a good	forum	for	generating	ideas. Practice	clarity	and	ruthless	efficiency	with	your	meetings,	and	people	will thank	you	for	respecting	the	sanctity	of	their	time.

## INVITE	THE	RIGHT	PEOPLE (p125)

You're	more	likely	to	have	a	great	meeting	if	everyone	necessary,	and	nobody extraneous,	is	there.	We've	all	been	in	rooms	with	lackluster	energy	because there	are	too	many	people	crowded	around	the	table,	many	of	them	distracted and	on	their	phones.	Do	they	all	need	to	be	in	attendance?	Probably	not. I've	also	been	in	meetings	where	the	goal	was	to	make	a	decision	that	would have	huge	impact	on	some	other	team-for	example,	a	product	decision	about which	features	to	build	also	affects	its	sales	prospects-but	there	weren't representatives	from	that	other	team	present.	This	is	costly	as	well	because	you can't	make	a	fair	decision	without	all	affected	stakeholders	in	the	room,	so	either the	decision	gets	delayed	or	it	risks	being	reescalated	and	debated	again. How	do	you	know	whom	you	should	invite?	Go	back	to	your	answer	for	what a	great	outcome	looks	like	for	your	meeting,	and	ask	yourself:	Which	people	are necessary	to	make	that	outcome	happen? Sometimes,	reasonable	people	can	disagree	on	who	needs	to	be	present.	A while	ago,	I	ran	a	review	meeting	where	I	and	a	few	other	managers	gave feedback	on	the	design	work	across	my	team.	All	the	designers	were	invited.	As we	continued	to	hire	more	people,	the	number	of	attendees	grew	and	grew	until the	meeting	felt	like	a	lecture	hall.	There	were	still	only	a	handful	of	people presenting	in	each	session,	which	meant	everybody	else	was	mainly	watching and	listening. I	suggested	that	we	cut	the	attendance	list,	but	not	all	the	managers	agreed. The	meeting	was	useful,	one	person	argued,	because	it	exposed	new	designers	to the	kind	of	feedback	they	should	expect.	Furthermore,	another	manager	added,	it was	a	high-visibility	meeting	with	lots	of	exposure	to	leadership,	and	to	be	in that	room	gave	people	the	sense	that	they	were	valued	members	of	the	team. These	were	excellent	points.	Yes,	the	meeting	did	serve	an	informational purpose	in	teaching	what	we	valued	in	good	design.	It	also	did	help	create	more connections	to	senior	leaders.	If	I	shrank	the	invite	list	to	just	those	presenting, we'd	lose	those	benefits. But	going	back	to	the primary goal	of	the	review,	it	was	so	I	and	other managers	could	give	helpful	feedback	on	projects	in	midflight.	Having	so	many other	observers	made	that	harder.	The	atmosphere	felt	formal	and	high	pressure. The	presenters	were	starting	to	spend	too	much	time	tweaking	the	details	of	their Keynote	decks.	And	as	a	reviewer,	I	felt	I	needed	to	choose	my	words	carefully in	front	of	such	a	big	crowd,	which	meant	I	couldn't	be	as	casual	and	direct	as	I would	have	liked. Ultimately,	we	decided	to	shrink	the	attendee	list.	We	resolved	to	find	other ways	to	invest	in	design	education	and	building	relationships,	including	sharing a	detailed	write-up	of	the	meeting	notes	and	hosting	more	leadership	Q&As. Folks	on	the	team	reclaimed	a	weekly	hour,	but	more	important,	the	review meeting	went	back	to	being	lower	pressure,	more	honest,	and	more	effective	at doing	what	it	was	meant	to	do.

## GIVE	PEOPLE	A	CHANCE	TO	COME	PREPARED (p126)

In	many	a	review,	I'd	be	the	person	in	the	room	with	the	perplexed	expression, squinting	at	the	charts	and	graphs	projected	in	front	of	us	while	the	presenters said	things	like,	'So	as	you	can	clearly	see	from	the	data	here	.	.	.' Wait,	wait! I wanted	to	yell. I	don't	see	how	you	got	to	that	conclusion.	.	.	.	Am	I	just	really slow? I've	since	learned	that	my	reaction	wasn't	unusual	and	certainly	nothing	to	be self-conscious	about.	Even	my	data-savviest	colleagues	need	time	to	process new	information. Because	the	presenters	knew	their	material	forward	and	back,	they experienced	what	social	psychologists	call	'the	curse	of	knowledge'-the cognitive	bias	that	makes	it	difficult	for	them	to	remember	what	it's	like	to	be	a beginner	seeing	the	content	for	the	first	time.	That's	why	they	assumed	the	room could	quickly	grasp	all	the	salient	points	as	they	flipped	from	slide	to	slide. But	if	the	goal	of	the	meeting	is	to	make	decisions	or	give	feedback,	it	can	be tough	for	stakeholders	to	understand	the	material	well	enough	in	the	span	of	a single	meeting	to	arrive	at	thoughtful	conclusions. The	solution	is	to	help	everyone	come	prepared.	The	change	we	made	to	our decision	and	review	meetings	was	to	ask	the	organizers	to	send	out	any presentations	or	documents	the	day	before	so	that	everyone	got	the	chance	to process	the	information	in	advance.	This	meant	that	I	could	spend	as	much	time as	I	needed	to	understand	all	the	charts	and	graphs,	which	allowed	me	to	be	a better	contributor	in	the	meeting. Sending	out	an	agenda	ahead	of	time	shows	a	level	of	care	and	intentionality in	helping	the	group	stay	focused.	It's	a	good	idea	to	do	this	for	meetings	of	any size,	even	1:1s,	but	the	larger	the	meeting,	the	more	important	the	preparation.	If this	sounds	like	a	lot	of	work,	consider	the	actual	monetary	cost	of	a	given meeting. If	a	company-wide	meeting	attended	by	five	hundred	employees	isn't engaging	or	memorable,	then	the	company	will	have	wasted	five	hundred people-hours-ten	thousand	dollars	if	you	assume	a	twenty-dollar-per-person hourly	wage.	Spending	even	five	hours	of	five	people's	time	(five	hundred dollars	total)	to	prepare	for	that	meeting	is	undoubtedly	worth	it.	Even	one recurring	weekly	meeting	with	a	handful	of	attendees	can	translate	to	thousands of	dollars	of	wasted	productivity	over	the	course	of	a	year	if	that	time	together isn't	well	spent. After	the	meeting,	the	follow-ups	need	to	be	treated	with	as	much	care	as	the preparation.	A	single	meeting	is	not	an	end	unto	itself;	it	is	a	stepping-stone	in the	much	longer	path	of	creating	something	valuable	for	the	world. In	the	last	few	minutes	of	a	meeting,	get	into	the	habit	of	asking,	'So	before we	break,	let's	make	sure	we	agree	on	next	steps	.	.	.'	After	the	meeting,	send out	a	recap	to	the	attendees	with	a	summary	of	the	discussion,	a	list	of	specific action	items	and	who	is	responsible	for	each,	and	when	the	next	check-in	will	be. If	a	decision	was	made,	then	that	should	be	communicated	to	the	right	people. If	feedback	was	given,	then	that	should	be	acted	upon.	If	ideas	were	generated, then	the	meeting	organizer	should	clarify	what	the	process	is	to	take	those	to	the next	stage.	These	follow-ups	can	then	anchor	the	agenda	for	when	the	group reconvenes.

## MAKE	IT	SAFE	FOR	PEOPLE	TO	CONTRIBUTE (p128)

Early	in	my	career,	I	was	the	quiet	person	whose	contributions	in	meetings	were inversely	proportional	to	how	many	people	were	in	the	room.	Which	meant	that in	1:1s,	I'd	say	a	lot,	but	in	groups	over	seven,	I'd	make	like	a	ninja	and	stay	as inconspicuous	as	possible. After	I	became	a	manager,	I	saw	this	same	phenomenon	in	many	folks	on	my team.	Not	everyone	is	comfortable	rattling	off	whatever's	top	of	mind	in	front	of a	group.	For	me,	it	was	fear	of	judgment-I	worried	that	I	would	say	something stupid	and	waste	other	people's	time. What	helped	me	find	my	voice	were	environments	that	felt	safe,	supportive, and	nonjudgmental.	It	was	easier	to	share	when	I	saw	everyone	else	doing	the same	versus	just	one	or	two	talkative	people.	Or,	when	somebody	asked	for	my opinion	because	she	was	genuinely	curious:	'Julie,	you	haven't	said	anything	yet -what	do	you	think	about	this	proposal?'	Or	when	I	had	a	good	enough relationship	with	the	other	folks	present	to	know	that	they	wouldn't actually think	I	was	incompetent,	even	if	I	said	something	stupid. If	you	are	a	meeting	organizer	trying	to	generate	ideas,	make	a	decision,	or create	stronger	relationships,	you	will	get	better	results	if	you	can	get	your	entire group	to	contribute.	This	is	why	it's	so	important	to	foster	a	welcoming environment	for	questions,	discussions,	discourse,	and	dissent.	If	you	present what	you	think	is	a	brilliant	idea	but	most	of	the	room	secretly	thinks	it's ridiculous,	it	doesn't	help	you	if	nobody	feels	comfortable	telling	you	how	they really	feel.	To	avoid	being	the	emperor	with	no	clothes	on,	try	the	following.

## Be	Explicit	about	the	Norms	You	Want	to	Set (p128)

If	you	want	everyone	to	participate	in	your	meeting,	sometimes	the	easiest	tactic is	just	to	say	that	directly. One	of	the	things	I	do	with	my	team	is	host	regular	Q&As.	It's	important	to me	that	people	feel	they	can	ask	me	hard	questions	and	get	straight	answers. However,	after	doing	about	a	dozen	of	these,	I	noticed	that	I	rarely	got	tough questions.	People	in	the	audience	would	look	at	each	other,	as	if	daring	someone else	to	ask	first. It	couldn't	be	because	my	team	didn't	have	any	hard	questions-I'd	often hear	through	the	grapevine	that	folks	were	skeptical	about	a	particular	strategy	or wondered	why	one	of	our	initiatives	wasn't	going	well.	But	they	never	came	up in	Q&A.	Finally,	I	decided	I	should	address	the	elephant	in	the	room. In	the	next	meeting,	I	opened	with	this:	'I'm	here	to	do	a	Q&A	because	it's really	important	to	me	that	we	can	have	real	talk	about	all	the	things	happening on	our	team.	But	to	be	honest,	I	don't	get	the	sense	that	I'm	hearing	all	of	your top	concerns.	So	I	want	to	say	this	up	front:	Hard	questions	are	good!	Get	them off	your	chest!	I	promise	to	be	as	transparent	as	I	can.' That	worked-by	explicitly	saying	that	I	valued	transparency	and	welcomed hard	questions,	many	more	people	asked	them.

## Change	Up	Your	Meeting	Format	to	Favor	Participation (p129)

An	unstructured	group	discussion	means	that	participants	choose	if	and	when they	speak.	If	you	have	an	introverted	set	of	people,	you	might	struggle	with getting	them	to	voice	their	thoughts.	If	you	have	extroverts,	they	might	dominate the	conversation.	Differences	in	seniority,	tenure,	or	familiarity	also	play	a	role in	people's	comfort	in	speaking	up. You	can	combat	natural	group	dynamics	by	suggesting	more	structured approaches.	One	example	is	going	around	the	room.	If	there	is	a	decision	to make	among	three	options,	you	might	ask	every	person	which	one	he	or	she favors	and	why.	This	guarantees	that	no	perspectives	are	left	unsaid. Another	tactic	I	like	is	the	'Post-it	note'	opening.	Before	launching	into	a discussion	about	a	complex	topic	(for	example,	what	our	marketing	goals	should be	or	what	success	looks	like	three	years	from	now),	give	everyone	a	pad	of Post-it	notes	and	ask	them	to	write	down	their	thoughts	on	the	topic.	Then,	have the	room	work	in	quiet	concentration	for	about	ten	to	fifteen	minutes. Afterward,	each	participant	puts	his	or	her	notes	up	on	the	board	and	talks through	their	thinking.	Similar	ideas	are	clumped	together,	and	after	the	very	last note	has	been	added,	the	room	discusses	the	various	'clumps.' By	encouraging	people	to	get	their	own	thoughts	down	on	paper	before sharing	them,	the	barrier	to	participation	is	lowered.

## Manage	Equal	Airtime (p130)

If	your	meetings	tend	to	be	dominated	by	a	few	individuals,	try	mediating	the amount	of	airtime	everyone	gets. Be	on	the	lookout	for	interruptions.	If	someone	starts	making	a	point	but another	loud	voice	cuts	her	off,	provide	cover	by	saying,	'Hang	on,	Ann	wasn't finished.'	As	an	added	bonus,	I've	found	that	doing	this	also	bolsters	your	own credibility. Similarly,	if	you	see	someone	seeking	to	get	a	word	in,	you	can	help	create	an opening:	'John	looks	like	he	wants	to	say	something.'	My	colleague	did	this	for me	once	in	an	executive	review	with	twenty	other	people,	and	to	this	day	I remember	the	rush	of	gratitude	I	felt. Particularly	perceptive	managers	might	even	try	directed	questions:	'Susan, you	look	puzzled-what	do	you	think	we	should	do?'	or	'Rick,	we	haven't heard	from	you	yet.	What's	your	opinion?' For	the	overtalkers,	be	clear	but	polite	in	letting	them	know	that	it's	time	for someone	else	to	get	a	turn:	'Ian,	it's	clear	you	have	more	you	want	to	say,	but let's	first	make	sure	other	people	get	a	chance	to	weigh	in'	or	'Laura,	I'm hearing	that	you	feel	very	strongly	we	should	do	X-before	we	wrap,	does anyone	have	another	opinion?	I	want	to	make	sure	all	points	of	view	are	heard.' It's	not	always	comfortable	to	interrupt	others	and	manage	the	flow	of conversation	in	this	manner,	but	it	sends	a	strong	signal	that	you	believe	better outcomes	come	from	hearing	a	diversity	of	perspectives.

## Get	Feedback	about	Your	Meeting (p130)

If	you're	lucky,	you'll	have	a	candid	team	member	who	will	tell	you	when	he	or she	feels	that	your	meeting	is	not	a	good	use	of	time.	However,	there's	a	more reliable	way:	make	a	habit	of	asking	for	feedback,	especially	on	recurring meetings	with	a	larger	audience. Remember	that	the	key	to	getting	great	feedback	is	being	specific	about	what you	want	to	know	and	making	it	safe	for	the	person	to	tell	you	her	honest opinion.	Leading	with	what	you	suspect	may	be	an	issue	signals	that	it's	okay	for the	person	to	be	critical. With	my	failed	status	meeting,	I	could	have	asked:	'How	useful	do	you	think my	weekly	status	meeting	is?	My	goal	is	to	give	everyone	context	on	who's doing	what	so	there's	better	collaboration	and	support	across	the	team.	But	I wonder	if	it's	too	bogged	down	in	the	details	right	now.	What	do	you	think?' Think	back	to	the	best	meetings	you've	had.	How	did	they	feel?	My	favorites are	the	ones	with	a	friendly	and	genuinely	curious	vibe.	There	isn't	an	invisible layer	of	tension	or	pressure	hovering	over	us.	People	feel	safe	to	toss	out	their crazy	ideas	or	say,	'I	disagree.'	Everyone	understands	that	their	presence	and contributions	are	appreciated.	That's	the	kind	of	meeting	we	should	aspire	to	run.

## SOME	MEETINGS	DON'T	NEED	YOU	AND	SOME	DON'T NEED	TO	EXIST	AT	ALL (p131)

Some	years	ago,	during	a	particularly	tough	period	at	the	office,	I	was	regularly working	past	midnight	on	nights	and	weekends. This	isn't	sustainable ,	I	thought to	myself. Why	am	I	feeling	so	behind	on	everything? I	told	this	to	my	husband	and	his	first	question	was,	'What	does	your calendar	look	like?'	'Busy,'	I	replied.	'Back-to-back	meetings.'	'Huh,'	he	said. 'Do	you	need	to	be	in	all	of	them?' His	words	motivated	me	to	take	a	deeper	look	at	my	schedule.	For	a	week,	I made	a	note	of	every	meeting	I	attended	and	how	I	felt	at	the	end	of	it.	Did	I participate?	Was	I	critical	to	the	outcome?	Did	I	get	something	meaningful	out	of being	there	in	person? At	the	end	of	the	week,	I	was	stunned	to	discover	that	for	about	40	percent	of my	meetings,	the	answer	was	no.	Truth	be	told,	some	meetings	I	attended because	I	wanted	to	feel	in	the	know	or	simply	because	I	was	on	the	invite	list and	felt	obligated	to	show	up.	But	all	that	time	could	have	been	spent	on	the priorities	that	kept	me	up	at	night	instead! I	thought	my	results	were	extreme,	but	I	learned	that	they	weren't	unusual. Leslie	Perlow	of	Harvard	Business	School	and	her	colleagues	surveyed	182 senior	managers	from	a	diverse	set	of	companies.	They	found	that	65	percent said	meetings	prevented	them	from	completing	their	own	work,	71	percent	found their	meetings	unproductive	and	inefficient,	and	64	percent	said	meetings	come at	the	expense	of	deep	thinking.
As	a	result	of	my	audit,	I	went	on	a	deep	calendar	cleanse.	I	purged	myself	of meetings	I	wasn't	really	contributing	to.	When	I	wanted	to	stay	in	the	loop	about relevant	decisions,	I	asked	the	meeting	organizers	to	include	me	on	pre-	and post-meeting	notes.	With	the	time	I	regained,	I	was	able	to	get	to	a	healthier balance	and	focus	on	doing	a	better	job	on	the	things	I	cared	about. As	a	manager,	your	time	is	precious	and	finite,	so	guard	it	like	a	dragon guards	its	treasure	stash.	If	you	trust	that	the	right	outcomes	will	happen	without you,	then	you	don't	need	to	be	there. Be	on	the	lookout	as	well	for	meetings	that	don't	seem	valuable	for anyone . They	should	be	canceled	or	revamped.	Research	by	Nale	Lehmann-Willenbrock and	her	colleagues	found	a	direct	connection	between	well-planned	meetings (where	the	right	people	are	invited,	the	agenda	is	organized,	and	the	interactions are	useful)	and	outcomes	like	team	performance	and	employee	well-being.	Bad meetings	can	'leave	employees	feeling	frustrated,	and	can	also	trigger	employee exhaustion	and	potential	burnout,'	Lehmann-Willenbrock	says,	whereas	'good meetings	can	boost	employee	morale.' I	used	to	have	a	meeting	on	Wednesdays	that	I	dreaded	going	to	because	it felt	so	tense	and	confrontational.	All	the	attendees	sat	with	arms	and	legs crossed,	like	we	were	debating	nuclear	weapons	policy	instead	of	process improvements.	Anything	that	was	said	was	immediately	refuted	or	met	with	a long	period	of	silence.	Thankfully,	the	meeting	series	eventually	ended	with	a larger	team	reorganization. Some	years	later,	I	was	talking	with	a	colleague	who	happened	to	be	in	that same	meeting	with	me,	and	we	both	realized	that	we	thought	the	meeting	was	a waste	of	time.	Our	group	hadn't	yet	established	trust	with	each	other,	so	every debate	felt	high	stakes	and	unproductive.	'Why	didn't	we	recognize	that	then and	shut	the	meeting	down	earlier?'	we	asked	ourselves.	Lesson	learned. If	you	find	yourself	in	a	recurring	meeting	of	questionable	value,	do	everyone an	important	service	by	kindly	letting	the	organizer	know.	Life's	too	short	to	be wasted	in	subpar	meetings.	Aim	to	make	every	single	one	you	are	a	part	of useful,	awesome,	and	energizing	so	that	your	team	can	achieve	more	together.

## Chapter	Seven (p133)


## Hiring	Well (p133)

Early	in	my	career, when	interviewing	other	people	still	felt	new	and	scary, I	found	myself	face-to-face	with	a	new	grad	candidate	named	Tom.	He	smiled shyly	as	I	introduced	myself.	After	I	threw	out	my	first	interview	problem,	he grabbed	a	marker	and	began	sketching	out	the	solution	on	a	whiteboard.	I noticed	that	his	hands	were	shaking	slightly.	He	asked	a	few	thoughtful questions.	When	he	got	stuck,	he	stopped,	stepped	back,	and	talked	through	his thoughts	out	loud. By	the	end	of	our	interview,	he	hadn't	completely	solved	all	the	problems	I'd posed.	I	could	tell	he	was	disappointed.	I	imagined	him	going	home,	pulling	out a	notebook,	and	continuing	to	plug	away	until	he	arrived	at	a	solution.	That's	the kind	of	person	he	seemed	to	be. Even	though	he	didn't	get	as	far	as	other	candidates	on	my	questions,	when	it came	time	to	cast	our	decisions,	I	said,	'Hire.'	This	surprised	even	me.	My default	was	to	vote	conservatively-if	I	had	any	hesitation	about	a	candidate,	it felt	safer	to	say,	'No	hire.'	This	was	the	first	time	I	had	ever	gone	out	on	a	limb for	someone.	But	I	just	couldn't	shake	the	feeling	that	Tom	was	something special:	not	just	smart	but	unusually	dedicated	and	thoughtful . I	knew	I'd	like working	with	him. Fortunately,	after	some	discussion	with	the	other	interviewers,	we	decided	to give	Tom	an	offer.	A	few	years	later,	I	saw	him	at	a	party.	He	came	up	to	me	and said,	'You	know,	I	still	remember	our	interview.	I	was	so	nervous,	and	I	didn't do	very	well	on	your	problem.	I	was	sure	you	weren't	going	to	hire	me.' I	smiled	and	joked	that	I	had	a	crystal	ball	that	showed	me	just	how	awesome he'd	be.	Because	Tom was awesome.	After	he	joined,	his	trajectory	was	like	a rocket	ship's.	In	a	few	short	years,	he	went	from	new	grad	to	senior	engineering leader.	Even	though	we	didn't	work	closely	together,	I	often	heard	his	name uttered	through	the	grapevine,	always	with	deep	respect.	He	was	incredibly smart,	and	yet	he	remained	one	of	our	most	thoughtful	and	dedicated	colleagues. At	a	growing	organization,	hiring	well	is	the	single	most	important	thing	you can	do.	At	this	point,	I've	interviewed	and	helped	bring	in	hundreds	of	peoplemore	than	the	entirety	of	the	company	when	I	started!	Those	people	have,	in turn,	gone	on	to	bring	in	many	more.	If	you	had	told	me	when	I	joined	that	I'd	be one	of	the	reasons	why thousands of	my	coworkers	are	here	today,	I'd	have thought	you	were	crazy. Hiring	doesn't	just	matter	at	scale-even	a	single	great	hire	can	make	a	big difference	in	your	team's	outcomes. The	most	important	thing	to	remember	about	hiring	is	this:	hiring	is	not	a problem to	be	solved	but	an	opportunity	to	build	the	future	of	your	organization. This	lesson	took	me	a	while	to	learn.	Because	my	team	grew	so	rapidly,	the need	to	hire	was	like	an	ever-present	cloud	looming	over	me.	We	never	seemed to	have	enough	people,	so	hiring	felt	like	the	thing	I had to	do	to	solve	the problem	of	overstretched	reports	and	understaffed	projects.	How	could	I	put these	fires	out	as	quickly	as	possible? And	yet,	hiring	isn't	just	about	filling	holes.	If	you	approach	it	that	way, you're	not	going	to	bring	in	the	best	people.	It's	about	figuring	out	how	to	make your	team	and	your	own life much,	much	better.	In	addition	to	contributing	their talents,	our	favorite	coworkers	teach	us	new	things,	inspire	and	support	us,	and make	going	to	work	a	whole	lot	more	fun.	Looking	back	now,	I	can't	think	of anything	more	satisfying	than	meeting	someone	for	the	first	time,	realizing	how awesome	they	are,	and	working	with	them	for	years	to	come	on	meaningful problems. At	the	same	time,	hiring	well	is	hard.	As	they	say	in	fairy	tales,	you'll	have	to meet	a	lot	of	frogs	in	order	to	find	a	good	match.	In	this	chapter,	we'll	discuss the	best	ways	to	approach	building	a	great	team.

## DESIGN	YOUR	TEAM	INTENTIONALLY (p136)

When	you	are	buckling	under	the	strain	of	a	short-staffed	team,	it	can	be	very hard	to	resist	someone	who	seems	available	and	ready	to	do	the	work.	You	might well	overlook	the	fact	that	they	aren't	exactly	what	you	want-similar	to	how, when	your	stomach	is	growling	and	you're	raiding	the	fridge,	pickles,	ketchup, and	bread	seems	like	an	acceptable	meal. The	solution	to	both	a	healthier	diet	and	a	better	team	is	to	plan	ahead.	If	you go	to	the	grocery	store	on	Sunday	and	buy	what	you	need	for	a	wholesome	meal every	night,	then	when	hunger	strikes	Wednesday	evening,	you're	more	likely	to reach	for	the	chicken	and	veggies. One	exercise	I	do	every	January	is	to	map	out	where	I	hope	my	team	will	be by	the	end	of	the	year.	I	create	a	future	org	chart,	analyze	gaps	in	skills, strengths,	or	experiences,	and	make	a	list	of	open	roles	to	hire	for.	You	can	do something	similar	by	asking	yourself	the	following	questions:
How	many	new	people	will	I	add	to	our	team	this	year	(based	on	company growth,	expected	attrition,	budget,	priorities,	etc.)?
For	each	new	hire,	what	level	of	experience	am	I	looking	for?
Which	specific	skills	or	strengths	do	we	need	in	our	team	(for	example, creative	thinking,	operational	excellence,	expertise	in	XYZ,	etc.)?
Which	skills	and	strengths	does	our	team	already	have	that	new	hires	can stand	to	be	weaker	in?
What	traits,	past	experiences,	or	personalities	would	strengthen	the	diversity of	our	team?
Having	a	thoughtful,	one-year-out	organizational	plan	lets	you	stay	ahead	of hiring	needs	and	gives	you	a	handy	framework	for	evaluating	candidates	so	that you	won't	fall	into	the	trap	of	saying	yes	to	the	next	person	who	comes	along. Even	if	things	change-your	organization	restructures,	an	employee	abruptly leaves,	priorities	shift-you	can	modify	your	plan	as	you	go	along	so	that	there's always	a	clear	picture	in	your	head	of	what	your	team	should	look	like. This	exercise	will	look	a	little	different	if	you're	at	a	company	without	a	lot of	hiring	needs.	In	that	case,	the	size	and	composition	of	your	team	a	year	from now	might	remain	pretty	similar	to	today.	Still,	it's	useful	to	consider	the possibility	of	attrition	and	where	you'll	look	if	someone	on	your	team	leaves. Where	did	your	best	employees	come	from?	What	new	skills,	if	any,	would	you want	to	add?	And	who	specifically	might	you	love	to	bring	on	board	if	a	spot opens	up?

## HIRING	IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY (p137)

If	you	have	the	good	fortune	of	working	with	a	dedicated	recruiting	team,	you may	be	tempted	to	believe	that	you	can	lean	back	and	expect	top	candidates	to be	delivered	to	your	door. Let	me	quickly	disabuse	you	of	that	notion.	No	recruiter	can	possibly	know what	an	ideal	candidate	looks	like	for your team.	They	also	can't	help	you	assess for	specialized	skills	like	reading	X-rays	or	writing	code.
At	the	end	of	the	day, you are	the	person	who	ultimately	owns	the	team	you build.	Successful	hiring	managers	form	close	partnerships	with	the	recruiting team	to	identify,	interview,	and	close	the	best	people.	A	great	recruiter	brings	her network	as	well	as	her	knowledge	of	the	recruiting	process-how	to	source	and pitch	candidates,	how	to	guide	them	through	interviews,	and	how	to	negotiate offers.	A	great	hiring	manager	brings	her	understanding	of	the	role-what	it needs	and	why	it's	exciting-as	well	as	her	time	to	personally	connect	with candidates. If	you	aren't	working	with	a	recruiter,	then	you'll	need	to	play	both	roles yourself.	Here's	how	you	should	approach	working	together.

## Describe	Your	Ideal	Candidate	as	Precisely	as	You	Can (p138)

It's	the	hiring	manager's	job	to	identify	when	a	role	is	open	and	what	kinds	of people	would	be	the	best	fit.	Write	the	job	description	yourself	and	be	specific about	the	skills	or	experiences	you	are	looking	for. Even	within	the	same	kind	of	job,	the	specific	requirements	can	vary meaningfully	from	team	to	team.	For	example,	some	of	the	designers	on	my team	are	responsible	for	our	most	widely	used	features,	such	as	browsing	posts or	commenting.	The	candidates	they	look	for	are	extremely	detail	oriented,	with strong	craftsmanship	skills.	Others	on	my	team	work	on	designing	experiences for	specific	audiences,	whether	they	are	small-business	owners,	gamers,	or	new internet	users.	These	teams	seek	designers	who	are	empathetic	and	experienced with	research	methodologies	to	guide	their	work.	When	your	recruiter understands	those	nuances,	he	can	help	you	screen	for	people	who	have	the qualities	you're	looking	for.

## Develop	a	Sourcing	Strategy (p138)

Once	you	have	a	good	sense	of	the	kind	of	person	you	want,	it's	helpful	to	sit down	with	the	recruiter	and	brainstorm	where	to	look	for	your	ideal	candidate. You	might	come	up	with	specific	titles	or	organizations	to	search	for	on LinkedIn,	people	whom	you	can	ping	for	recommendations,	conferences	to attend,	or	ads	you'd	like	to	place. Another	exercise	is	to	figure	out	which	patterns	or	keywords	you	should	look for	in	a	résumé.	For	one	role,	my	recruiting	partner	and	I	identified	that	our	ideal candidate	would	have	experience	working	at	both	a	design	agency	as	well	as	a tech	company	because	that	combination	often	produces	a	healthy	balance	of vision	and	pragmatic	know-how.	We	also	agreed	that	I	should	send	out	the introductory	email	instead	of	the	recruiter	so	the	experience	felt	personal	right off	the	bat. Sometimes,	unusual	patterns	can	lead	to	amazing	candidates.	Patty	McCord, the	former	chief	talent	officer	at	Netflix,	describes	how	her	recruiting	team noticed	that	a	surprising	number	of	their	top	data-science	leaders	shared	an interest	in	music.	So	in	addition	to	searching	for	résumés	with	the	typical	dataoriented	keywords,	they	also	began	looking	for	people	who	played	piano	or guitar.	'[We]	concluded	that	such	people	can	easily	toggle	between	their	left	and right	brains-a	great	skill	for	data	analysis,'	McCord	writes.

## Deliver	an	Amazing	Interview	Experience (p139)

I	can't	tell	you	how	many	times	I	have	had	candidates	accept	and	tell	me	that part	of	their	reason	for	doing	so	was	because	the	interview	process	felt	so attentive,	focused,	and	fast.	It	gave	them	confidence	in	our	company	and	the team	they	would	be	working	with. Even	when	you	don't	end	up	extending	an	offer,	an	amazing	interview experience	tells	prospective	hires	that	you	care	about	the	people	who	might	be the	future	of	your	organization. Making	this	happen	requires	a	strong	manager-recruiter	relationship.	My recruiting	partner	and	I	become	like	Batman	and	Robin	for	any	candidate	who comes	in	to	interview.	We'd	message	each	other	multiple	times	a	day	about	the details-did	all	the	interviewers	have	the	background	notes?	Who	was	assessing which	skills?	Could	we	find	an	interviewer	who'd	relate	well	to	the	candidate, like	Anne,	who	came	from	the	same	previous	company,	or	Dixon,	who	was	also new	to	the	city?	Who	was	going	to	reach	out	and	thank	the	candidate	for	his time? By	working	in	tandem	on	the	interview	experience,	we	avoided	common mistakes	like	leaving	days	or	weeks	in	between	next	steps,	asking	candidates	to repeat	themselves	over	and	over,	or	giving	them	conflicting	or	confusing information.

## Show	Candidates	How	Much	You	Want	Them (p139)

When	you	decide	to	extend	an	offer,	it's	as	much	your	job	as	it	is	the	recruiter's to	make	the	candidate	feel	that	you	want	her	to	say	yes.	The	more	distance	you create	in	the	process-for	example,	letting	a	week	lapse	between communications-the	more	likely	the	answer	is	no. After	I	deliver	an	offer,	I	try	to	check	in	with	the	candidate	every	other	day	to let	her	know	that	I	am	thinking	about	her	and	that	I'm	excited	to	welcome	her	to my	team.	I	ask	if	she'd	like	to	talk	through	any	questions,	and	sometimes	we'll do	lunch	or	dinner	to	discuss	the	role	in	more	detail. The	more	senior	the	candidate,	the	more	critical	your	involvement	is	in	the close	because	that	person	likely	has	many	options,	and	you	are	looking	for	her	to play	a	leadership	role	within	your	team.	Paint	a	vivid	picture	of	how	you	see	her having	impact.	Help	her	understand	why	the	role	is	exciting	and	why	she's	the perfect	person	to	tackle	these	big	problems.

## HIRING	IS	A	GAMBLE,	BUT	MAKE	SMART	BETS (p140)

How	likely	is	it	that	a	few	hours	spent	with	someone	will	give	you	an	accurate sense	of	their	potential	as	an	employee? We	might	think	we	are	good	judges	of	character,	but	the	evidence	suggests otherwise.	A	few	years	ago,	Google	crunched	the	numbers	on	tens	of	thousands of	interviews	to	see	if	there	was	a	correlation	between	how	high	an	interviewer rated	the	interaction	and	how	well	the	candidate	went	on	to	perform.	What	they found	was	that	there	was	'zero	relationship'	and	that	it	was	'a	complete	random mess.' I	wasn't	surprised	to	read	this	because	I've	seen	examples	on	both	sideswhere	an	amazing	interview	led	us	to	hiring	someone	who	ultimately	wasn't	a good	fit,	and	when	I	said,	'No	hire,'	to	someone	who	turned	out	to	be	an incredible	contributor. There	are	three	reasons	why	a	handful	of	interviews	isn't	ever	going	to	be	a perfectly	reliable	predictor	of	someone's	success.	The	first	is	that	it's	impossible to	re-create	the	actual	working	environment	of	a	team	in	a	thirty-minute	or	hourlong	meeting.	Most	real-world	projects	are	complex,	spanning	many	people	and taking	weeks,	months,	or	years	to	complete.	An	interview	can	only	hope	to simulate	how	well	a	candidate	does	on	a	smaller	problem	in	a	fraction	of	the time. Second,	interviewers	bring	their	personal	biases	into	the	evaluation.	We're swayed	by	first	impressions	and	whether	what	we	see	fits	our	understanding	of what	a	'great'	candidate	looks	like.	A	Harvard	study	found	that	when	American symphonies	implemented	'blind	auditions'-that	is,	the	interviewers	listened	to a	candidate	play	from	behind	a	curtain-it	improved	the	probability	that	a woman	would	advance	from	preliminary	rounds	by	50	percent. Finally,	the	third	reason	interview	results	don't	tell	the	whole	truth	is	that people	are	capable	of	enormous	change.	Google	stopped	relying	on	signals	like college	GPAs	for	candidates	more	than	a	few	years	out	of	school.	Said	Laszlo Bock,	their	senior	vice	president	of	people	operations,	'After	two	or	three	years, your	ability	to	perform	at	Google	is	completely	unrelated	to	how	you	performed when	you	were	in	school	because	the	skills	you	required	in	college	are	very different.	You're	also	fundamentally	a	different	person.	You	learn	and	grow,	you think	about	things	differently.' Hiring	someone	new	is	always	risky,	but	be	smart	about	your	approach	and you'll	raise	your	chances	of	success.

## Examine	Past	Examples	of	Similar	Work (p141)

The	best-though	still	imperfect-predictor	for	how	someone	will	do	in	the future	is	to	understand	how	they've	done	in	the	past	on	similar	projects	in	similar environments.	That's	why	internships	are	so	valuable;	when	someone	joins	your team	for	a	few	months,	you	get	a	much	better	understanding	of	how	they	work. The	next	best	thing	is	to	dive	deeply	into	their	past	work.	When	we	interview designers,	we	put	a	strong	emphasis	on	the	'portfolio	review,'	where	candidates come	in	and	present	a	few	projects	of	their	choosing.	By	hearing	them	talk through	their	process	and	show	us	specific	examples	of	their	work,	we	learn	a	lot about	their	skills	and	their	approach	to	problems.	A	friend	who	works	in education	does	something	similar	by	asking	potential	instructors	to	come	in	and teach	a	class	on	whatever	subject	they'd	like. Ask	candidates	if	they	can	show	you	the	applications	they've	developed,	the articles	they've	written,	the	pitches	they've	given,	etc.,	so	you	can	assess	the quality	of	their	output.	If	what's	presented	is	a	team	effort,	ask	for	clarification on	which	pieces	the	individual	was	responsible	for.

## Seek	Out	Trusted	Recommendations (p141)

If	a	credible	source	tells	you	that	Jane	is	amazing	but	Jack	is	not	someone	he'd want	to	work	with	again,	take	that	feedback	seriously.	The	trustworthiness	of your	two-hour	interview	pales	in	comparison	to	the	testimony	of	someone's tried-and-true	experience	working	with	that	person. Whenever	we	open	up	a	new	role,	the	first	thing	I	do	is	make	sure	my	entire team	knows	we're	hiring.	'If	you	could	wave	a	magic	wand,	who's	your	dream candidate	for	this	position?'	I'll	ask	them.	The	list	I	get	in	return	is	both	a	good starting	point	on	who	I	should	reach	out	to,	but	also	where	else	we	could	be sourcing	from-across	these	recommended	people,	are	there	patterns	in	skills, companies,	or	experiences	that	we	should	further	dig	in	to? The	other	place	where	trusted	recommendations	come	in	handy	is	the reference	check.	Kevin	Ryan,	founder	of	Gilt	Groupe	and Business	Insider ,	takes personal	references	to	the	extreme.	'The	hiring	process	typically	has	three elements:	the	résumé,	the	interview,	and	the	reference	check,'	says	Ryan.	'Most managers	overvalue	the	résumé	and	interview	and	undervalue	the	reference check.	References	matter	most.' The	key,	Ryan	says,	is	to	look	for	honest	references.	'It	can	take	real	effort	to find	someone	who'll	be	straight	with	you,	but	it's	worth	it.'	You	probably	won't get	that	by	calling	up	the	folks	that	a	candidate	provides	or	talking	to	someone you	don't	know	well.	But	ask	your	network	of	trusted	colleagues	if	they	can	help put	you	in	touch	with	a	mutual	connection	that	they	also	trust. When	evaluating	references,	keep	in	mind	two	things.	The	first	is	that	people typically	improve	their	skills	over	time,	so	discount	negative	feedback	that	isn't recent.	If	your	friend	tells	you	that	five	years	ago	Jack	wasn't	great	at	closing deals,	it's	possible	he's	since	gotten	much	better. The	second	thing	is	that	you	might	not	get	a	diverse	pool	of	candidates	if you're only sourcing	within	your	existing	network,	so	go	back	to	your	definition of	the	ideal	person	for	the	role	and	make	sure	you're	casting	the	net	wide enough.

## Get	Multiple	Interviewers	Involved (p142)

The	best	practice	for	interviews	is	to	have	the	candidate	talk	to	multiple	people who	know	what	the	role	needs,	with	each	interviewer	asking	different	questions so	that	the	group	emerges	with	a	well-rounded	perspective.	For	example,	if	you are	hiring	a	finance	manager,	one	interviewer	might	assess	management	and collaboration	skills	while	another	asks	detailed	finance	questions,	and	yet another	explores	the	candidate's	past	work	experience.
Having	multiple	interviewers	can	reduce	bias	and	catch	subtle	red	flags	that any	one	person	might	have	missed.	When	debriefing,	however,	each	person should	independently	record	their	rationale	and	their	final	'hire'	or	'no	hire' decision	before	hearing	other	interviewers'	thoughts	to	ensure	that	the	discussion doesn't	lead	to	groupthink.

## Look	for	Passionate	Advocates	Rather	Than	Consensus (p143)

When	we	started	ramping	up	the	number	of	interviews	we	did,	one	of	the	things I	started	to	hear	in	debriefs	was	what	we	called	the	'weak	hire.'	The	weak	hire was	when	all	the	interviewers	independently	landed	on	the	side	of	'hire,'	which sounds	great	on	paper-a	unanimous	decision!-but	nobody	was	particularly enthusiastic	about	it.	This	manifested	in	phrases	like,	'I'm	not	sure	he'd	be	right for my team,	but	I	could	see	him	being	valuable	on	someone	else's	team'	or	'I don't	see	a	reason	why	we shouldn't hire	her	.	.	.' I	noticed	that	weak	hires	were	given	when	a	candidate	didn't	have	any obvious	issues-they	seemed	pleasant	enough,	they	toed	the	standard	line	in their	answers,	and	they	had	relevant	experience.	At	the	same	time,	they	also didn't wow in	any	particular	dimension.	None	of	the	interviewers	felt	strongly enough	to	fight	for	the	hire	if	the	decision	came	down	to	no. Since	every	hire	is	already	a	gamble,	reject	any	weak	hires.	While	they're	not likely	to	bomb,	they're	also	not	likely	to	add	much.	If	you're	going	to	make	a bet,	bet	on	someone	with	a	passionate	advocate	behind	her.	If	a	candidate	gets mixed	reviews	but	all	the	interviewers	that	said	hire	are	adamant	about	wanting to	work	with	her,	it's	usually	a	sign	that	she	brings	something	highly	valued	to the	table.

## Prepare	Your	Interview	Questions	Ahead	of	Time (p143)

The	best	interviews	happen	when	you	show	up	with	a	clear	sense	of	what	you want	to	learn	about	the	person.	This	means	that	you	should	familiarize	yourself with	their	background	and	have	a	list	of	questions	prepared.	If	multiple candidates	are	interviewing	for	the	same	role,	ask	each	candidate	the	same things.	Remember	that	we	are	all	biased-if	you	don't	do	this,	you	risk	basing your	hiring	decision	on	your	impression	of	the	person	and	the	flow	of	the conversation	rather	than	on	the	substance	of	his	answers.
I	once	interviewed	a	candidate,	let's	call	him	Mason,	who	came	off	nervous and	timid.	Mason	didn't	make	much	eye	contact,	took	breathy	gasps	in	between sentences,	and	would	repeat	the	same	point	three	times	in	an	answer.	But	I	had prepared	a	set	of	questions	to	understand	his	skills	and	experience:	Could	he walk	me	through	how	he	set	goals	on	a	particular	project?	Could	he	describe	the most	difficult	challenge	he'd	encountered	in	his	past	job	and	how	he	tackled	it? Could	he	honestly	describe	his	strengths	and	weaknesses	(and	did	he	admit	that one	of	those	weaknesses	was	communication)? These	questions	helped	me	understand	how	Mason	handled	problems,	and	he nailed	them.	The	substance	of	his	answers	were	more	detailed	and	thoughtful than	other	candidates'.	We	hired	him.	He	worked	hard	to	improve	his communication	skills,	and	he	quickly	became	a	top	contributor. Only	you	can	decide	what	questions	you	should	ask,	because	only	you	know what	you're	looking	for.	In	particular,	highly	specialized	roles	deserve	specific questions	that	probe	at	those	skills.	But	if	you're	looking	for	a	starting	point	on what	to	ask,	these	are	my	favorite	all-purpose	questions:
What	kinds	of	challenges	are	interesting	to	you	and	why?	Can	you	describe a	favorite	project? This	tells	me	what	a	candidate	is	passionate	about.
What	do	you	consider	your	greatest	strengths?	What	would	your	peers agree	are	your	areas	of	growth? This	question	gets	both	at	a	candidate's self-awareness	and	what	his	actual	strengths	and	weaknesses	might	be.
Imagine	yourself	in	three	years.	What	do	you	hope	will	be	different	about you	then	compared	to	now? This	lets	me	understand	the	candidate's ambitions	as	well	as	how	goal	oriented	and	self-reflective	she	is.
What	was	the	hardest	conflict	you've	had	in	the	past	year?	How	did	it	end, and	what	did	you	learn	from	the	experience? This	gives	me	a	sense	of	how the	candidate	works	with	other	people	and	how	he	approaches	conflict.
What's	something	that's	inspired	you	in	your	work	recently? This	sheds light	on	what	the	candidate	thinks	is	interesting	or	valuable.

## Reject	Anyone	Who	Exhibits	Toxic	Behavior (p144)

Remember	how	assholes	are	the	one	thing	you	shouldn't	tolerate	on	your	team? Be	on	the	lookout	for	warning	signs	in	interviews:	bad-mouthing	past	employers
('My	last	manager	was	terrible');	blaming	failures	they	were	associated	with	on others	('The	reason	my	last	project	didn't	succeed	was	because	of	internal politics');	insulting	other	groups	of	people	('The	sales	team	were	bozos'); asking	what	the	company	can	do	for	them	instead	of	the	reverse	('This	feels	like a	step	up	for	my	career');	and	coming	across	with	high	arrogance	or	low	selfawareness	('I	was	attracted	to	this	position	because	it	seems	like	you	need someone	really	senior').

## Build	a	Team	with	Diverse	Perspectives (p145)

A	long	time	ago,	as	our	team	was	growing,	my	manager	Kate	started	the	process of	hiring	for	some	new	leadership	roles.	I	remember	sitting	through	presentation after	presentation	by	external	candidates	from	big-name	companies.	They'd	walk us	through	polished	decks	explaining	their	elaborate	design	processes:	creating intricate	user	personas,	conducting	months-long	research,	hosting	ideageneration	sprints	involving	hundreds	of	Post-it	notes. At	the	time,	Facebook	was	still	small,	and	I	had	a	hard	time	understanding why	you	wouldn't	just	get	into	a	room	with	some	engineers	to	build	and	design	a product	in	a	few	weeks.	These	fancy	processes	seemed	like	overhead.	Would big-company	veterans	work	out	in	our	scrappy	start-up	environment?	I	wasn't convinced.	But	after	Kate	made	a	few	hires,	I	got	my	answer. At	first,	I	found	myself	clashing	with	the	new	managers-we	disagreed	on hiring	strategy,	how	to	run	a	critique,	what	an	A-plus	designer	looked	like,	and more.	To	be	honest,	I	thought	the	'new	guard'	was	trying	to	make	things	more complicated,	and	they	thought	I	was	being	closed-minded. But	time	always	reveals	the	truth.	It	turns	out	that	as	we	grew,	having managers	in	our	midst	who	knew	what	to	do	when	we	went	from	50	to	250 people	was	a	tremendous	asset.	Bit	by	bit,	I	started	to	appreciate	that	their strengths	were	my	weaknesses.	We	indeed	had	to	evolve	how	we	worked, including	hiring	for	new	types	of	talent,	introducing	more	structured	processes, and,	yes,	better	supporting	our	growing	user	base	by	adopting	tools	like	personas and	sprints. Prioritizing	diversity	isn't	just	a	poster	or	a	slogan.	It's	the	belief	that diversity	in	all	aspects-from	gender	to	race	to	work	history	to	life	experiences -leads	to	better	ideas	and	better	results.	The	science	supports	this:	A	2014 report	of	hundreds	of	public	companies	found	that	those	with	the	greatest	ethnic and	racial	diversity	in	their	management	ranks	were	35	percent	more	likely	to have	financial	returns	higher	than	average.	A	study	of	2,400	companies	found that	organizations	with	at	least	one	female	board	member	had	better	outcomes than	organizations	with	no	women.	An	experiment	involving	college	fraternities and	sororities	found	that	teams	consisting	of	an	'outsider'	solved	problems	more accurately	than	teams	consisting	just	of	people	within	the	group. Even	if	you	don't	look	at	the	data,	it	just	makes	logical	sense:	Are	you	more likely	to	get	innovative	ideas	from	a	bunch	of	other	people	who	look,	think,	and behave	like	you,	or	from	people	who	come	with	different	perspectives? Prioritizing	diversity	means	that	you	actively	seek	out	candidates	who	offer something	different.	It	means	not	just	promoting	from	within	but	also	hiring from	the	outside.	And	it	means	recognizing	that	every	single	person,	you	and	me included,	comes	with	his	or	her	own	bag	of	beliefs	that	should	be	challenged	by others.	The	power	of	diversity	helps	our	team	avoid	biases,	make	better decisions,	and	think	more	creatively.

## Hire	People	Who	Are	Capable	of	More (p146)

Sometimes,	I'll	hear	managers	say	things	like:	'I	only	need	someone	to	take	care of	X	right	now.	I	don't	need	someone	who	can	also	do	Y	and	Z.' Maybe.	You	certainly	shouldn't	look	at	CEO	candidates	when	the	role	(and the	budget)	calls	for	a	frontline	salesperson.	At	the	same	time,	if	you're	dealing with	knowledge	work,	hiring	someone	who	seems	to	offer	more	than	what	the role	needs	right	now	means	they	can	help	you	tackle	bigger	problems	in	the future.	In	all	my	years	of	building	teams,	I	have	never,	ever	thought	to	myself, huh,	there	aren't	enough	big	problems	for	all	the	talented	people	we	have. The	opposite	has	always	been	true.	I	once	hired	a	director-level	candidate when	we	were	starting	up	a	new	initiative.	The	initial	size	of	the	team	was modest,	and	this	hire	had	experience	running	much	larger	organizations.	On paper,	the	role	seemed	too	small	for	what	he	was	capable	of. But	fast-forward	to	a	few	months	later:	he's	killing	it	on	the	area	he's	asked	to lead,	and	he	proactively	identifies	and	executes	on	other	initiatives	that	help	us scale.	When	an	opportunity	to	lead	another	team	comes	up,	he's	the	first	person	I think	of.	Within	a	year,	he's	managing	multiple	key	projects. As	a	manager,	one	of	the	smartest	ways	to	multiply	your	team's	impact	is	to hire	the	best	people	and	empower	them	to	do	more	and	more	until	you	stretch the	limits	of	their	capabilities.

## Meeting	Frogs	Is	Part	of	the	Deal,	but	Believe	in	the	Process (p147)

For	me,	the	most	stressful	part	of	hiring	was	the	uncertainty	of	it.	If	I	emailed	a candidate,	there	was	no	guarantee	that	I	would	hear	back.	If	I	got	a	response	and we	set	up	a	phone	call,	there	was	a	good	chance	that	either	the	candidate	or	I would	decide	afterward	that	the	role	wasn't	a	good	match. In	the	cases	where	the	candidate	came	in	to	interview,	he	or	she	might	not	do well	on	our	questions.	And	if	we finally made	it	to	the	end	with	a	shining	offer ready	to	be	signed,	the	candidate	would	sometimes	decline.	At	every	step,	you could	be	met	with	disappointment	and	a	sense	that	you	had	wasted	your	time. The	thing	I	learned,	though,	is	that	if	you	zoom	out	a	little	further,	the recruiting	progress	can	be	simply	understood	as	a	funnel	of	numbers.	When	you are	talking	about	dozens	of	candidates,	that	funnel	stays	relatively	consistent. For	example	(and	I	am	making	up	the	numbers	here),	out	of	twenty	emails	you send,	you	might	get	interest	back	from	ten.	Out	of	ten	initial	meetings,	four	will move	on	to	interview	stage.	Out	of	four	interviews,	one	will	result	in	an	offer. And	out	of	an	offer,	a	candidate	will	decline	50	percent	of	the	time. Though	the	specific	numbers	might	be	different	given	the	team,	the	role,	and the	organization,	no	matter	what	you	plug	in,	it's	possible	to	get	to	an	equation that	looks	like	this:	'An	average	of	X	initial	emails	leads	to	a	hire.' Thinking	about	things	this	way	made	me	confident	that	the	more	time	and energy	I	spend	on	recruiting,	the	more	it	pays	off,	even	if	a	few	specific instances	here	and	there	don't	work	out.

## HIRING	WHEN	YOU	NEED	FIVE,	TEN,	OR	HUNDREDS	OF PEOPLE (p147)

A	few	years	back,	our	company	was	growing	rapidly,	and	design	hiring	had	not kept	pace.	It	seemed	like	every	single	day,	I	heard	another	tale	of	woe	about	how our	shortage	of	designers	was	creating	problems-projects	were	stalled,	the existing	designers	felt	stretched	thin,	frustrations	abounded.	'But	I'm	working on	it!'	I'd	cry	in	response.	And	I	was.	There	wasn't	a	day	that	went	by	where	I wasn't	messaging	with	the	recruiting	team,	sending	out	cold	emails,	or conducting	interviews.	'I	want	to	hire	great	people,'	I'd	say.	'And	hiring	well takes	time.' A	few	weeks	after	that,	my	manager	Chris	and	I	were	having	our	usual	1:1, when	the	topic	turned	to	my	open	positions.	'Do	you	think	you're	spending enough	time	on	hiring?'	he	asked	me.	'Yes,'	I	said,	and	gave	him	my	standard line	about	how	I	never	let	a	day	pass	without	working	on	recruiting.	There	was	a long	pause.	Then,	he	looked	me	in	the	eye	and	asked:	'If	I	told	you	that	hiring well	was	the only thing	that	mattered,	would	you	do	anything	differently?' I	blinked.	Well,	when	he	put	it that way,	yes,	of	course.	I	was	working	on hiring	every	day,	but	the	majority	of	my	time	was	spent	on	other	thingsreviewing	road	maps,	critiquing	designs,	meeting	with	my	reports,	etc.	When	I looked	at	hiring	as	the only thing	I	needed	to	excel	at,	suddenly	dozens	of	new ideas	zoomed	forth.	I	could	be	asking	my	network	for	more	referrals.	I	could	be inviting	more	candidates	out	for	coffee.	I	could	be	honing	my	pitch	with	trusted colleagues. The	four	months	that	followed	were	the	most	productive	I'd	ever	been.	I filled	all	my	open	leadership	roles,	and	we	welcomed	many	new	talented	faces onto	our	staff. What	I	learned	is	that	hiring	is	not	dissimilar	to	tackling	a	design	problem. When	you	start,	you	don't	know	what	the	answer	is	or	how	long	it	will	take.	But you	trust	in	the	process.	If	you	put	in	the	time	and	energy-if	you	come	up	with ten	different	design	options,	say,	or	if	you	talk	to	ten	candidates-eventually	you will	find	the	best	solution.	You	always	do. We've	already	established	that	recruiting	is	a	critical	part	of	any	manager's job.	However,	when	your	team	is	growing	swiftly,	hiring	becomes	easily	the	top one	or	two	most	important	skills.	If	you	need	to	build	out	a	large	team	and	you don't	have	a	strong	bench	of	managers,	the	problem	quickly	becomes	intractable. You	can't	create	great	outcomes	without	consistently	attracting	talented	people and	ensuring	that	they	can	also	hire	well.

## Here	are	the	most	important	things	I've	learned	about	hiring	at	scale. (p148)


## Successful	Hiring	Is	All	about	Diligent	Execution (p148)

Depending	on	your	luck,	it	might	take	you	two	weeks	or	two	months	to	land someone	for	a	particular	role.	However,	at	scale,	when	you	need	to	grow	by twenty	or	two	hundred	people	instead	of	just	two,	the	averages	start	to	massage away	individual	cases	of	unpredictability.	If,	for	your	team,	one	accept	comes from	two	offers,	eight	interviews,	twenty	initial	meetings,	and	forty	emails,	then to	get	twenty	hires,	you'll	need	to	send	about	800	emails	over	the	course	of	the year.	It's	a	big	number,	but	the	certainty	is	refreshing.
Your	task	then	becomes	to	create	a	well-oiled	machine	in	which	all	the	steps in	the	recruiting	funnel	happen	smoothly	and	efficiently.	Let's	say	there	are	eight managers	on	your	team.	To	reach	your	hiring	goals,	each	manager	will	need	to send	out	roughly	two	hundred	emails	a	year,	which	is	about	four	a	week.	That's not	too	crazy.	If	you	want	to	achieve	160	interviews,	you	should	aim	to	have three	candidates	come	in	every	week.	You'll	need	to	have	enough	people	who can	assess	candidates	in	a	consistent	and	objective	manner,	which	means	you'll need	a	program	to	train	interviewers. Look	also	for	opportunities	to	make	your	funnel	more	efficient.	Can	you tweak	your	initial	email	to	be	more	compelling	so	that	you	get	more	responses? Can	you	host	events	so	that	prospective	candidates	are	more	likely	to	want	to interview?	Can	you	come	up	with	better	questions	to	ask	that	give	you	more information	about	a	candidate? Your	success	depends	on	how	well	you	operate.	Break	the	problem	down	into smaller	and	smaller	pieces,	and	ask	your	entire	staff	to	play	a	role	in	helping	the team	grow	and	thrive.

## Do	Your	Research	When	Hiring	Leaders (p149)

Hiring	a	manager	or	senior	contributor	onto	your	team	is	a	big	investment,	and bad	leadership	hires	are	disproportionately	more	disruptive	because	they	affect more	people.	If	you	bring	on	a	new	manager	whose	values	aren't	aligned	with yours,	he	will	hire	people	that	you	may	not	think	are	a	good	fit.	If	he	turns	out	to be	a	crummy	collaborator,	you'll	be	dealing	with	a	line	of	complaints	out	the door. It's	wise	not	to	rush	into	leadership	hires,	and	instead	make	sure	you	know what	an	ideal	applicant	looks	like.	The	easiest	way	to	do	that	is	to	talk	with	as many	prospective	candidates	as	you	can,	including	those	who	may	not	want	the job	but	know	the	role	well.	Especially	if	you're	hiring	for	an	unfamiliar	position, you	need	to	do	your	homework	to	understand	what	the	bar	should	be. Imagine	a	smart	CEO	with	a	background	in	sales	trying	to	find	a	head	of engineering.	She's	never	done	the	job	before,	so	how	will	she	know	what	to	look for?	She	could	start	by	asking	her	network	to	connect	her	with	top	engineering leaders.	Even	if	they're	not	interested	in	her	position,	she	invites	them	out	for coffee	so	she	can	learn	from	them:	What	do	they	look	for	in	a	résumé?	What questions	do	they	ask	in	interviews,	and	what	kinds	of	answers	are	they	looking for?	Do	they	have	any	recommendations	on	where	to	look	for	strong	candidates?
Our	CEO	then	talks	with	the	engineers	on	her	team	to	understand	what	they think	is	important	in	a	leader.	She	asks	a	few	of	them	to	help	her	assess	a candidate's	technical	skills.	She	makes	sure	to	bring	in	a	variety	of	people	to interview	so	she	can	become	better	calibrated	on	what	to	look	for.	As	a	result, she	makes	confident	hiring	decisions	and	brings	in	a	top-notch	engineering leader. When	you	make	a	great	leadership	hire,	the	impact	on	your	team	is	enormous for	years	to	come.	Don't	approach	it	willy-nilly-it	pays	to	do	your	research.

## Take	the	Long	View	with	Top	Talent (p150)

This	happens	so	often	that	it's	practically	a	cliché:	I'm	actively	recruiting	for	an amazing	leader.	I	meet	someone	who	impresses	me,	and	immediately,	my	eyes get	starry	with	the	possibilities.	I	envision	us	tackling	problems	together	and having	a	blast.	I'm	already	thinking	about	how	I'll	introduce	this	person	to	the team	on	her	first	day. Excitedly,	I	give	her	the	offer,	and	everything	is	coming	up	roses	until	.	.	.	I get	the	dreaded	phone	call:	'Actually,	I've	decided	to	do	something	else.	.	.	.' Crushed,	I	wish	her	well	and	slump	back	into	my	chair.	I	cross	her	name	off	the list.	The	search	continues. But,	see,	this	story	has	a	happy	ending.	Because	months	or	years	down	the road,	I	get	an	email	out	of	the	blue.	It's	from	the	candidate.	The	situation	has changed,	she	says,	and	now	she's	ready	for	something	new.	Are	there	any opportunities	on	my	team? The	lesson:	Recruiting	top	talent	is	all	about	the	relationships	you	build. Good,	seasoned	leaders	aren't	short	of	options,	because	everybody	wants	to	hire them.	When	they're	looking	for	their	next	role,	they	tend	to	choose	opportunities that	they	already	know	to	be	great.	Maybe	a	good	friend	works	at	and	loves Company	Y.	Or	maybe	they've	met	some	of	the	leaders	of	Company	X	before.	If you	could	get	a	job	anywhere,	why	would	you	join	a	team	where	you	don't	know a	soul? That's	why	attracting	the	best	people	is	a	long-term	investment.	Pay	attention to	the	rising	stars	of	your	field	and	get	to	know	them	through	conferences, mixers,	and	other	events.	Continuously	build	your	network.	And	develop	your team's	reputation	as	well,	whether	through	participating	in	the	community, contributing	new	learnings	to	your	field,	telling	your	story	in	the	press,	or	simply through	being	known	as	a	class	act.
Even	with	the	many,	many	declined	offers	I've	gotten	over	the	years,	I've come	to	realize	that	they	weren't	for	nothing.	Many	of	the	leaders	on	my	team today	only	joined	after	saying	no	once	or	twice	before.	Nowadays,	I	tell	people who	turn	us	down	that	I	hope	our	paths	cross	again.	Jobs	may	be	short,	but careers	are	long.	Perhaps	we	didn't	have	the	right	opportunity	at	the	right moment	or	they	weren't	ready	to	do	something	new	yet.	One	day	that	could change,	and	when	it	does,	I	want	them	to	think	of	us.

## Build	a	Great	Bench (p151)

One	of	the	scenarios	I	play	out	with	the	leaders	on	my	team	is	what	I	call	the 'extended	vacation'	test.	(Others	have	used	the	term	'hit	by	the	bus,'	but	that's just	morbid.)	It	goes	like	this:	If	you	were	to	hike	some	distant	mountains	or sunbathe	on	a	remote	island	for	a	few	months,	how	much	would	your	own manager	need	to	step	in	to	ensure	that	everything	ran	smoothly? If	the	answer	is	'not	much,'	then	congratulations!	You've	got	a	great	bench. If	the	answer	is,	'Hmm,	my	manager	would	need	to	do	a	lot,'	then	that's	a	sign your	next	layer	of	leadership	could	use	some	shoring	up. Having	a	great	bench	means	your	lieutenants	could	take	over	for	you	if you're	unexpectedly	called	out	of	the	office.	It	means	you	are	not	the	single point	of	failure-fires	won't	ignite,	chaos	won't	erupt,	and	work	won't	grind	to	a halt	if	you're	not	there.	Having	a	great	bench	is	one	of	the	strongest	signs	of stellar	leadership	because	it	means	the	team	you've	built	can	steer	the	ship	and thrive,	even	if	you	are	not	at	the	helm. 'But	wait , '	I	hear	people	say.	'That	sounds	nice	in	theory , but	if	your	team can	be	successful	without	you,	doesn't	that	mean	you're	not	actually	valuable?' Excellent	question.	But	ask	yourself:	Can	even	the	best	leaders	be	coached	to even	better	performance?	The	answer	is	absolutely	yes,	so	you	should	still	see your	job	as	being	a	multiplier	for	your	people. More	important,	a	strong	bench	frees	up	a	manager	to	tackle	the	next	big	hill on	the	horizon.	When	Facebook	was	still	run	out	of	a	Harvard	dorm	room,	Mark Zuckerberg	personally	wrote	most	of	the	code	for	the	service.	Hiring	his	first engineers	didn't	mean	that	he	became	obsolete;	it	just	meant	that	he	could	focus his	attention	on	other	things-expanding	the	service	to	other	schools,	developing new	features	like	News	Feed,	and	hiring	other	leaders	to	work	with	him	on	the goal	of	connecting	the	world.
The	job	your	team	does	shouldn't	be	static-as	the	group	becomes	capable	of more,	your	ambitions	should	also	grow.	What	is	the	next	big	problem	that	your team	can	take	on,	and	how	can	you	help	make	it	happen? Facebook	today	would	be	fine	if	Mark	went	on	an	extended	vacation-in fact,	he	took	a	few	months	off	after	the	births	of	his	daughters.	But	his	leadership continues	to	challenge	the	company	to	dream	bigger	and	do	more	in	the	service of	bringing	people	closer	together.

## Create	a	Culture	That	Prioritizes	Hiring	Well (p152)

If	your	team	is	growing	to	the	point	of	needing	more	managers,	the responsibility	of	hiring	must	become	shared.	Eventually,	you	won't	be	in	every interview,	nor	be	the	deciding	vote	in	every	debrief.	That	simply	isn't	sustainable at	tens	or	hundreds	of	hires	a	year. On	the	one	hand,	you	might	feel	like	you're	losing	control,	like	you're 'giving	away	your	LEGOs,'	as	my	friend	Molly	Graham	calls	it.	Molly	is	well acquainted	with	hyper-growth	through	her	time	at	Google,	Facebook,	and	other start-ups.	She	likens	the	anxiety	you	might	feel	to	that	of	a	kid	who	was	once	the solo	architect	and	now	has	to	share	her	building	blocks	with	others. On	the	other	hand,	you	have	the	chance	to	establish	a	culture	that	outlasts	you and	carries	forth	your	values	at	a	broader	scale.	To	do	this,	pay	close	attention	to how	you	set	the	tone	for	hiring.	Coach	your	leaders	to	treat	team	building	with the	utmost	care,	and	ensure	that	they	dedicate	enough	time	and	attention	to connecting	with	remarkable	candidates.	Repeatedly	talk	about	your	values	so that	everyone	understands	what	great	talent	looks	like.	And,	above	all,	make	it clear	that	building	the	team	isn't	just	one	person's	job,	it's	everyone's	job. During	our	monthly	design	meetings,	one	long-standing	tradition	we	have	is going	around	the	room	and	introducing	any	new	employees	in	our	midst.	At first,	it	felt	like	I	was	hosting	a	dinner	party	where	I'd	present	one	of	my	new acquaintances	to	some	old	friends	of	mine.	Over	time,	other	managers	began introducing	the	hires	they	made. One	day,	as	we	did	this	ritual	with	a	giant	room	full	of	people,	I	glanced around	at	all	the	new	faces	and	realized	that	I	didn't	know	a	single	one	of	them! It	was	a	surprising	realization,	but	also	one	of	my	proudest	moments.	As	we went	from	person	to	person,	it	was	clear	that	these	new	hires	were	amazing.	I didn't	hire	them	directly	myself,	but	I	couldn't	wait	to	work	with	them.

## Chapter	Eight (p153)


## Making	Things	Happen (p153)

Once	upon	a	time, a	guy	named	Kevin	who	loved	Kentucky	whiskey wanted	to	create	something	that	helped	people	make	plans	with	their	friends, check	into	different	locations,	and	post	photos	of	the	gatherings.	He	quickly hacked	together	an	app	called	Burbn	and	launched	it	into	the	world.	He persuaded	his	friend	Mike	to	join	him,	and	together	they	carefully	observed	how people	used	their	app. It	turns	out	that	what	they	built	was	complicated	and	not	particularly	useful. Users	weren't	checking	in	much,	which	was	the	main	point	of	the	service.	But there	was	one	feature	that	seemed	to	be	sticking-the	photo-sharing	part.	People were	posting	snaps	of	everyday	life-streets	and	restaurants,	lattes	and	beers, friends	and	selfies.	Fascinated,	Kevin	and	Mike	dug	in	to	this	use	case.	They studied	all	the	ways	people	shared	photos	using	their	phones.	A	few	months later,	they	decided	to	pivot	their	app.	They	cut	out	the	planning	and	location check-in	features	and	made	the	focus	all	about	simple,	beautiful	photo	sharing. Oh,	and	they	changed	the	name,	too,	from	Burbn	to	Instagram. Today,	Instagram	is	used	by	more	than	1	billion	people	all	over	the	world.	In 2012,	it	became	part	of	the	Facebook	family	after	a	$1	billion	acquisition. The	origin	story	of	every	great	company	reveals	a	common	theme:	The	path to	success	is	never	a	straight	line.	It's	not	about	having	the	single,	brilliant, lightning-flash	insight	that	suddenly	wins	the	game.	Instead,	it's	about	consistent planning	and	execution-you	try	what	seems	like	a	good	idea.	You	do	it	quickly. You	keep	your	mind	open	and	curious.	You	learn.	Then	you	scrap	what	failed and	double	down	on	what's	working.	You	rinse	and	repeat,	maybe	over	and	over and	over	again.	This	process	is	what	makes	things	happen. Process .	Many	people	think	of	it	as	a	bad	word	because	it	conjures	up	images of	filling	out	paperwork	or	waiting	in	line.	But	process	isn't	inherently	good	or bad.	Process	is	simply	the	answer	to	the	question	'What	actions	do	we	take	to achieve	our	goals?'	Even	if	that	answer	isn't	written	down	anywhere,	it	still exists. Bad	process	is	heavy	and	arbitrary.	It	feels	like	a	series	of	hoops	to	jump through.	But	good	process	is	what	helps	us	execute	at	our	best.	We	learn	from our	mistakes,	move	quickly,	and	make	smarter	decisions	for	the	future. How	can	you	establish	effective	processes	for	your	team?	This	chapter discusses	some	of	the	fundamentals	of	making	things	happen.

## START	WITH	A	CONCRETE	VISION (p156)

Once,	I	was	working	on	a	six-month	road	map	for	our	Groups	product.	I	wanted to	start	by	stating	the	purpose	behind	our	work,	so	I	wrote	down: Help	people connect	with	others	through	their	shared	interests .	Then	I	went	on	to	describe our	strategy	and	upcoming	milestones. At	my	next	1:1	with	my	manager	Chris,	I	shared	the	document	with	him	to get	some	feedback.	He	read	the	first	sentence,	took	out	a	pen,	and	underlined: Help	people	connect	with	others	through	their	shared	interests. 'It's	too	soft,'	he muttered.	'What	do	you	mean?'	I	asked.	It	seemed	to	me	a	perfectly	accurate description	of	what	we	were	trying	to	do.	He	tried	again:	'It's	just-you	know, it's	squishy.	It	doesn't	actually	describe	what's	going	to	be	different.' I	got	his	point	then.	Though	it's	common	to	hear	words	like help , improve ,	or enhance when	talking	about	goals,	they	don't	paint	a	clear	picture.	If	someone on	the	team	fixes	one	bug,	does	that	'improve'	the	experience?	Of	course.	Does it	contribute	to helping	people	connect	with	others	through	their	shared interests ?	Sure.	But	would	our	team	be	happy	if	that's	all	we	did	in	the	next	six months?	No	way.	Because	of	the	huge	amount	of	subjectivity	in	words	like help or improve ,	they	don't	do	much	to	create	a	shared	sense	of	purpose. Instead,	tangible	visions	have	the	most	impact.	Recall	Herbert	Hoover's catchy	campaign	slogan:	'A	chicken	in	every	pot.'	It's	the	opposite	of	squishy. The	promise	isn't	'America's	going	to	get	wealthier.'	It's	not	'People	will	have more	economic	prosperity.'	'A	chicken	in	every	pot'	conjures	up	an	image	of millions	of	families	enjoying	a	hearty	and	substantial	meal	for	supper. It	turns	out	that	Herbert	Hoover	never	said	this.	The	phrase	comes	from	a Republican	campaign	flyer	posted	around	the	time	of	the	election.	But	the memorability	of	that	little	promise	spread	far	and	wide,	into	nearly	a	century	of misattribution.	That's	the	power	of	a	concrete	vision. When	Facebook	was	a	little-known	site	used	by	millions	of	students,	Mark Zuckerberg	would	casually	say	that,	one	day,	we'd	connect	the	entire	world.	At the	time,	MySpace	was	almost	ten	times	bigger	than	us,	so	this	felt	like outlandish	ambition.	And	yet.	The	vision	was	razor	sharp.	Nobody	could misunderstand	what	we	were	going	after.	We	weren't	just	trying	to	'grow	and improve	the	service.'	We	weren't	even	aiming	to	be	the	number	one	player	in social	networking.	We	held	the	idea	in	our	minds	that,	one	day,	we'd	build something	useful	enough	that everyone -all	the	billions	of	people	out	therewould	use	it. An	inspiring	vision	is	bold.	It	doesn't	hedge.	You	know	instantly	whether you've	hit	it	or	not	because	it's	measurable.	And	it's	easily	repeated,	from	one person	to	the	next	to	the	next.	It	doesn't	describe	the how -your	team	will	figure that	out-it	simply	describes	what	the	outcome	will	be.	I	tell	my	team	that	I'll know	they	did	a	good	job	describing	their	vision	if	I	randomly	ask	five	people who've	heard	it	to	repeat	it	to	me	and	they	all	say	the	exact	same	thing. As	a	manager,	it's	important	to	define	and	share	a	concrete	vision	for	your team	that	describes	what	you're	collectively	trying	to	achieve.	An	SAT	tutoring service	might	state	its	objective	as	improving	every	student's	test	scores	by	at least	two	hundred	points.	A	lab	might	commit	to	having	a	50	percent	reduction in	error	rates	within	two	years.	The	fund-raising	arm	of	a	nonprofit	may	set	a goal	to	raise	$50	million	in	three	years.	For	Groups,	our	mission	eventually became	to	enable	one	billion	people	to	find	a	meaningful	community	on Facebook.

## To	help	you	get	started,	ask	yourself	the	following: (p157)

Assume	you	have	a	magic	wand	that	makes	everything	your	team	does	go perfectly.	What	do	you	hope	will	be	different	in	two	to	three	years compared	to	now?
How	would	you	want	someone	who	works	on	an	adjacent	team	to	describe what	your	team	does?	What	do	you	hope	will	be	your	team's	reputation	in	a few	years?	How	far	off	is	that	from	where	things	are	today?
What	unique	superpower(s)	does	your	team	have?	When	you're	at	your best,	how	are	you	creating	value?	What	would	it	look	like	for	your	team	to be	twice	as	good?	Five	times	as	good?
If	you	had	to	create	a	quick	litmus	test	that	anyone	could	use	to	assess whether	your	team	was	doing	a	poor	job,	a	mediocre	job,	or	a	kick-ass	job, what	would	that	litmus	test	be?

## Create	a	Believable	Game	Plan (p157)

Let's	say	you	have	a	concrete	vision	and	you	know	what	success	looks	like. What	then?	Now	you	have	to	figure	out	a	plan-also	known	as	creating	a strategy-to	make	those	outcomes	real. 'Plans	are	worthless,	but	planning	is	everything,'	said	Dwight	D. Eisenhower,	one	of	history's	top	generals	and	the	orchestrator	of	D-day	during World	War	II.	Though	surprises	happen	and	not	everything	is	within	our	control, it's	through	the	process	of	planning	that	we	make	sense	of	our	situation	and	plot our	best	shot	at	success.	When	emergencies	do	arise,	a	solid	strategy	provides the	foundation	for	us	to	quickly	adapt	our	plans	instead	of	going	back	to	the chaos	of	square	one. What	makes	for	a	good	strategy?	First,	it	must	have	a	realistic	shot	at working.	If	someone	asks	you	what	your	strategy	is	for	getting	'a	lemonade stand	on	every	block'	and	you	say	that	you're	going	to	get	all	the	top	celebrities in	the	world	to	endorse	it,	you'll	be	met	with	raised	eyebrows.	Doing	so	will require	either	so	much	money	that	it's	unlikely	to	be	a	good	investment,	or	a product	that's	so	amazing	that	the	LeBron	Jameses	and	Taylor	Swifts	of	the world want to	be	associated	with	it	even	if	you	don't	pay	them-also improbable. A	good	strategy	understands	the	crux	of	the	problem	it's	trying	to	solve.	It focuses	a	team's	unique	strengths,	resources,	and	energy	on	what	matters	the most	in	achieving	its	goals. If	you're	leading	a	smaller	part	of	a	larger	organization,	then	your	team's plans	should	relate	directly	to	the	organization's	top-level	strategy.	For	example, Facebook	seeks	to	give	people	the	power	to	build	community	and	bring	the world	closer	together	through	tools	like	News	Feed,	Messenger,	and	Groups. Within	those	product	teams,	the	leaders	are	tasked	with	creating	the	specific strategies	for	their	area	to	support	Facebook's	mission. As	you	plan	for	the	future,	here	are	some	things	to	keep	in	mind.

## Craft	a	Plan	Based	on	Your	Team's	Strengths (p158)

Just	as	your	management	style	reflects	who	you	are	and	what	you're	good	at,	so too	should	your	plans	take	into	account	your	team's	unique	capabilities.	For example,	my	team	of	product	designers	are	experts	at	mobile	and	desktop interaction	design.	These	are	the	skills	that	we	hire	and	train	for	because	it's	the bulk	of	what	we	do.	But	in	those	instances	when	a	project	calls	for	a	polished marketing	video	or	a	large	number	of	illustrations,	I	usually	turn	to	another	team. Sometimes,	this	confuses	my	engineering	colleagues.	'But	aren't	you designers?'	they	ask.	'Designers	draw	and	animate,	right?'	I	explain	that	while many	people	on	our	team can ,	that	doesn't	mean	we should .	It's	not	our	core competency,	and	we'll	probably	end	up	spending	double	the	time	for	80	percent the	quality	of	what	a	specialized	team	could	do. Just	like	you	wouldn't	send	an	army's	cavalry	on	a	spying	mission,	you shouldn't	create	a	plan	that	doesn't	match	what	your	team	is	well	suited	for. There	are	usually	dozens	of	ways	to	get	from	Point	A	to	Point	B.	Do	you	want	to go	by	land,	sea,	or	air?	If	you	choose	land,	do	you	want	to	take	the	jungle	path	or the	mountain	path?	There	is	no	universal	right	answer.	The	plan	that	is	smartest for	your	team	is	the	one	that	acknowledges	your	relative	strengths	and weaknesses.

## Focus	on	Doing	a	Few	Things	Well (p159)

Ever	heard	of	the	Pareto	principle?	Named	after	an	Italian	economist	who observed	an	interesting	pattern	of	wealth	distribution	in	nineteenth-century	Italy, it's	now	more	commonly	known	as	the	80/20	principle	thanks	to	a	blockbuster book	by	Richard	Koch	written	in	1998.	The	general	idea	is	that	the	majority	of the	results	come	from	a	minority	of	the	causes.	The	key	is	identifying	which things	matter	the	most. Conventional	wisdom	says	that	success	comes	from	working	hard	and persevering	through	difficulties.	That's	sage	advice,	but	it	overlooks	how important	focus	is.	As	Koch	writes,	'Few	people	take	objectives	really	seriously. They	put	average	effort	into	too	many	things,	rather	than	superior	thought	and effort	into	a	few	important	things.	People	who	achieve	the	most	are	selective	as well	as	determined.' When	creating	new	products,	builders	must	determine	which	features	are essential	and	which	are	'nice	to	have.'	When	forming	a	new	team,	managers	try to	hire	the	leaders	or	'anchors'	before	the	rest	of	the	group.	When	determining which	patients	to	see	in	the	emergency	room,	doctors	will	triage	and	tackle	the most	urgent	issues	first.	Prioritization	is	key,	and	it's	an	essential	managerial skill. The	best	way	to	practice	prioritization	is	to	order	any	list	you	make	by importance.	Make	sure	that	the	things	at	the	top	are	taken	care	of	before	you venture	further	down	the	list.	For	example,	if	you've	got	five	tasks	on	your	to-do list	for	today,	rank	them	by	priority	and	do	number	one	before	number	two.	If you	have	three	goals	for	your	team	this	half,	force	yourself	to	answer:	'If	I	could only	achieve	one	goal,	which	would	it	be?'	If	you	have	five	open	roles	to	hire for,	pour	your	energy	into	filling	the	one	that's	most	critical. Effort	doesn't	count;	results	are	what	matter.	I	learned	this	my	first	week	on the	job	when	I	was	told	the	origin	story	of	one	of	Facebook's	most	popular products.	In	2005,	Facebook	launched	a	way	for	people	to	upload	personal photos	onto	the	service.	At	the	time,	there	were	many	other	photo-sharing options	to	choose	from.	Among	them,	Flickr	was	the	gold	standard.	It	was chock-full	of	features-high-resolution	photos	beautifully	displayed	(including	a full-screen	slideshow	mode),	photo	search	by	location	or	even	color,	slick navigation	with	previews	and	keyboard	shortcuts,	and	much	more. By	contrast,	Facebook's	initial	product	seemed	incredibly	bare-bones.	You could	only	upload	low-resolution	photos,	so	they	showed	up	small	and	grainy. There	were	no	handy	navigation	shortcuts,	no	search	capabilities,	no	full-screen displays.	Flickr	had	a	much	bigger	team	that	had	been	working	on	these	features for	years,	whereas	Facebook's	photo	service	was	built	by	a	handful	of	engineers in	a	matter	of	months.	But	there	was	one	small,	novel	feature	that	the	team included	in	their	initial	launch:	photo	tagging.	The	idea	was	that	you	could indicate	that	a	particular	photo	was	of	you	and	your	friend	Susan,	and	Susan would	get	notified	about	it.	The	tagged	photo	would	then	also	show	up	on Susan's	profile	so	that	other	mutual	friends	could	see	it. This	photo-tagging	feature	was	so	powerful	that,	within	a	few	short	years, Facebook	became	the	most	popular	photo-sharing	service	in	the	world.	Why? Because	it	turns	out	that	the	most	valued	part	of	personal	photos	are	the	people within	them.	In	most	homes,	what	you	see	hung	on	the	walls	or	lining	the mantels	aren't	snapshots	of	beautiful	landscapes	or	artsy	scenes	but	rather faces -family	portraits,	weddings	and	graduations,	memories	of	happy	afternoons spent	with	loved	ones.	The	tagging	functionality	ensured	that	those	in	the	photos, as	well	as	their	friends,	would	not	miss	seeing	them.	This	simple	social	feature was	worth	way	more	to	people	than	dozens	of	other	less	useful	features. In	the	words	of	Apple	visionary	Steve	Jobs,	creator	of	the	iPod,	iPhone,	and iPad:	'People	think	focus	means	saying	yes	to	the	thing	you've	got	to	focus	on. But	that's	not	what	it	means	at	all.	It	means	saying	no	to	the	hundred	other	good ideas	that	there	are.	You	have	to	pick	carefully.	I'm	actually	as	proud	of	the things	we	haven't	done	as	the	things	I	have	done.	Innovation	is	saying	no	to 1,000	things.'

## Define	Who	Is	Responsible	for	What (p160)

Imagine	this	scenario:	Five	people	are	brainstorming	ways	to	improve	the	ease of	moving	through	an	app.	The	ideas	come	fast	and	furious,	ricocheting	off	the walls	and	stirring	up	debate. 'We	should	allow	swiping	between	sections!'	someone	exclaims.	'But	is swiping	something	that	people	will	discover?'	someone	else	asks.	'Let's	do some	research	to	understand	that,'	comes	the	answer.	'Good	idea.	We	can	also talk	to	Jane,	whose	team	tried	a	similar	thing	a	year	ago,	and	ask	what	they learned.'	'I'm	not	sure	about	swiping-could	be	good,	but	what	do	you	think about	floating	tabs?'	someone	else	pipes	up.	And	on	and	on	the	conversation goes. Based	on	that,	what	do	you	expect	are	the	next	steps	around	swiping? The	most	likely	answer	is	that	nothing	happens.	While	there	was	talk	of	doing some	research	and	talking	to	Jane,	no	action	item	was	created	because	no	one explicitly	signed	up	to	do	it.	When	ownership	isn't	clear,	things	slip	through	the cracks.	This	doesn't	just	happen	in	meetings;	every	time	you	send	an	email	to more	than	one	person	about	an	issue	that	requires	a	follow-up,	the	recipients	may be	confused	about	whom	you	are	expecting	to	do	what.	Each	might	assume someone	else	is	responsible. I'm	embarrassed	to	admit	how	long	it	took	me	to	realize	the	importance	of defining	ownership.	Even	when	people	have	the	best	of	intentions,	fuzziness around	role	definition	can	create	problems.	One	time,	I	sat	two	of	my	most talented	team	members	down	and	told	them	about	a	challenging	new	problem.	I asked	them	to	work	together	to	come	up	with	a	solution.	In	my	head,	I	thought that	their	strengths	would	complement	each	other	well. The	problem	was	that	they	had	widely	differing	opinions	about	what	to	do. Because	I	didn't	define	how	I	wanted	them	to	work	together	or	who	ultimately had	decision-making	authority,	they	argued	in	circles,	each	trying	to	convince the	other.	Progress	slowed	to	a	halt.	From	this,	I	learned	that	the	clearer	I	am about	whom	I'm	holding	accountable	for	what,	the	less	of	a	chance	there	is	for ambiguity	and	crossed	wires. In	retrospect,	here's	how	I	should	have	clarified	expectations	up	front:	'Dan, I'd	like	you	to	take	the	lead	on	framing	the	options;	Sarah,	can	you	own	defining the	visual	language?'	or	'Each	of	you	should	take	a	stab	at	how	you'd	design this.	For	the	areas	where	you	have	differing	opinions,	let's	have	the	three	of	us get	together	and	I'll	make	a	call.'

## Break	Down	a	Big	Goal	into	Smaller	Pieces (p161)

Have	you	ever	heard	of	Parkinson's	law?	Coined	by	Cyril	Parkinson,	a twentieth-century	British	historian	and	scholar,	it	states:	'Work	expands	so	as	to fill	the	time	available	for	its	completion . ' When	my	publishing	team	and	I	first	started	discussing	the	schedule	for	this book,	we	agreed	that	a	sensible	timeline	for	a	first	draft	was	one	year.	I	got	off the	phone	call	feeling	bold. One	year	is more than	enough	time.	I'll	have	the	first draft	done	in	six	months ,	I	told	myself. Guess	what?	I	sent	off	a	not-even-fully-completed	first	draft	on	the	one-year mark,	feeling	abashed.	For	the	first	nine	months,	I	felt	as	though	there	was plenty	of	time	on	the	clock.	So	if	another	urgent	task	came	up,	or	if	I	simply didn't	feel	like	writing,	I'd	tell	myself, Skipping	one	day	won't	make	much	of	a difference . For	my	second	draft,	I	wised	up.	Instead	of	treating	the	entire	book	as	one humongous	project	with	a	far-out	deadline,	I	broke	it	down	and	promised	my editors	I	would	revise	one	chapter	a	week. Suddenly,	I	became	far	more	disciplined.	If	I	wanted	to	hit	my	goal,	I	had	to edit	about	two	pages	a	night.	Translated	into	these	smaller	milestones,	it	was easy	to	see	that	missing	even	a	night's	worth	of	writing	was	a	big	deal	because I'd	have	to	make	up	for	it	to	stay	on	track.	I	made	good	on	my	word-my efficiency	tripled	on	the	second	draft. Nothing	worthwhile	happens	overnight.	Every	big	dream	is	the	culmination of	thousands	of	tiny	steps	forward.	When	Facebook	first	launched,	the	only	thing you	could	do	was	fill	out	a	profile,	and	the	only	place	it	worked	was	at	Harvard University.	Week	over	week,	Mark	and	the	founders	focused	on	expanding	the service	one	school	at	a	time,	one	feature	at	a	time. Thinking	only	about	the	finish	line	of	a	long	race	can	be	discouraging because	it	seems	miles	and	miles	away.	You	might	wonder	if	anything	you	do today	can	really	make	a	difference.	But	if	you	divide	your	plan	up	into	smaller chunks	and	focus	on	your	next	milestone-finishing	the	task	at	hand,	preparing for	that	next	meeting,	getting	through	two	pages-success	suddenly	seems entirely	within	your	reach.	And	the	sense	of	urgency	becomes	real. Treat	big	projects	like	a	series	of	smaller	projects.	For	example,	if	you're	an architect	building	a	house,	the	first	milestone	might	be	to	conduct	a	survey	of	the land	so	that	you	have	the	most	accurate	information	about	topography,	soil condition,	flood	risk,	etc.	The	second	milestone	might	be	to	identify	where	on the	land	to	build	the	house.	The	third	milestone	might	be	to	define	which	rooms are	needed,	etc.
Worry	about	what's	in	front	of	you-don't	worry	yet	about	what's	months	or years	ahead.	Then	work	with	your	team	to	set	realistic	and	ambitious	target	dates for	each	milestone.	Keep	in	mind	the	planning	fallacy:	our	natural	bias	to	predict that	things	will	take	less	time	and	money	than	they	actually	do.	Allot	a	buffer	for dealing	with	unexpected	issues. From	your	target	date,	work	backward	and	figure	out	who	needs	to	do	what every	week.	Ask	people	to	set	and	publicly	commit	to	their	weekly	goals-this creates	accountability.	Periodic	reviews	can	also	be	a	good	way	to	sustain momentum.	I	know	a	team	who	uses	this	technique	expertly,	sometimes	even hosting	two	meetings	a	week	to	review	progress	and	discuss	urgent	priorities. If	your	team	is	juggling	a	number	of	different	tasks,	order	those	by	what matters	most-which	ones	are	'critical	path'	and	which	are	'nice	to	have'? Always	tackle	'critical	path'	first. As	it	turns	out,	there	are	many	corollaries	to	Parkinson's	law.	My	favorite	is Mark	Horstman's:	'Work	contracts	to	fit	the	time	we	give	it . '	There	is	always	a way	to	break	down	what	seems	like	an	impossible	journey	into	a	series	of	days, miles,	and	finally	steps.	By	putting	one	foot	in	front	of	the	other	over	and	over again,	eventually	we'll	scale	mountains.

## PERFECT	EXECUTION	OVER	PERFECT	STRATEGY (p163)

I	once	heard	a	colleague	say	that	she'd	take	perfect	execution	over	perfect strategy	any	day.	What's	the	difference?	Well,	if	your	strategy	is	bad,	then	you'll make	a	move	on	a	chessboard	that	opens	you	up	to	attack.	But	if	your	execution is	bad,	then	your	intended	'Rook	to	E5'	somehow	becomes	'Bishop	to	D10' because	you're	trying	to	play	chess	with	your	feet	instead	of	your	hands. The	best	plans	don't	matter	if	you	can't	achieve	them	accurately	or	quickly enough	to	make	a	difference.	For	example,	say	you	had	a	crystal	ball	that	could tell	you	the	exact	industry-disrupting	new	idea	to	build.	If	your	end	product	is slow	and	buggy	compared	to	the	competition,	or	if	you	fail	to	get	to	market	fast enough,	you'll	still	lose	the	game. I	learned	this	when	I	got	a	chance	to	see	my	colleague,	whom	we'll	call Rachel,	in	action	a	few	years	ago.	At	the	time,	Rachel	and	her	team	defined	their road	maps	in	short,	multiweek	sprint	cycles.	On	week	one,	Rachel	ran	a	threehour	brainstorm	meeting.	As	the	room	munched	on	pizza,	goals	were	proposed and	project	ideas	were	scribbled	onto	the	board.	Everyone	cast	their	vote	for their	favorite	concepts,	and	the	group	narrowed	them	down	to	a	handful	to	build.
'But	wait	a	minute,'	I	piped	up.	I	was	skeptical	that	all	the	ideas	would	work. And	to	do	some	of	them	well,	you'd	need	months,	more	time	than	the	sprint allowed.	But	Rachel	explained,	'We	can	either	spend	the	next	few	weeks debating	which	ideas	are	the	best	or	we	can	try	to	learn	as	quickly	as	possible	by doing .	Our	goal	is	to	build	simple,	conclusive	tests	that	help	us	understand	which things	we	should	double	down	on	and	which	things	we	should	cut	from	the	list. If	an	idea	works,	we'll	expand	upon	it	in	the	next	sprint.' Once	she	said	that,	I	understood	why	the	multiweek	cadence	was	so important.	It	was	short	enough	that	you	didn't	lose	much	if	any	single	idea failed.	And	it	was	a	repeatable	process	that	maximized	learnings	in	the	long	run. Throughout	your	career,	you	will	make	countless	mistakes.	The	most frustrating	will	be	the	ones	where	you	don't	learn	anything	because	it's	not	clear whether	the	issue	is	with	strategy	or	execution. Every	time	you	see	a	good	script	result	in	a	bad	movie,	a	pioneering	company lose	business	to	a	less	innovative	competitor,	or	a	genius	professor	do	a	poor	job of	teaching	students,	you're	seeing	a	failure	of	execution. The	most	brilliant	plans	in	the	world	won't	help	you	succeed	if	you	can't bring	them	to	life.	Executing	well	means	that	you	pick	a	reasonable	direction, move	quickly	to	learn	what	works	and	what	doesn't,	and	make	adjustments	to get	to	your	desired	outcome.	Speed	matters-a	fast	runner	can	take	a	few	wrong turns	and	still	beat	a	slow	runner	who	knows	the	shortest	path. Here	are	some	ways	to	tell	if	your	team	is	executing	well:
Lists	of	projects	or	tasks	are	prioritized	from	most	to	least	important,	with the	higher-up	items	receiving	more	time	and	attention.
There	is	an	efficient	process	for	decision-making	that	everyone	understands and	trusts.
The	team	moves	quickly,	especially	with	reversible	decisions.	As	Amazon CEO	Jeff	Bezos	says,	'Most	decisions	should	probably	be	made	with somewhere	around	70%	of	the	information	you	wish	you	had.	If	you	wait for	90%,	in	most	cases,	you're	probably	being	slow.'
After	a	decision	is	made,	everyone	commits	(even	those	who	disagree)	and moves	speedily	to	make	it	happen.	Without	new	information,	there	is	no second-guessing	the	decision,	no	pocket	vetoing,	and	no	foot	dragging.
When	important	new	information	surfaces,	there	is	an	expedient	process	to examine	if	and	how	current	plans	should	change	as	a	result.
Every	task	has	a who and	a by when .	Owners	set	and	reliably	deliver	on commitments.
The	team	is	resilient	and	constantly	seeking	to	learn.	Every	failure	makes the	team	stronger	because	they	don't	make	the	same	mistake	twice.

## Balancing	Short-Term	and	Long-Term	Outcomes (p165)

Being	great	at	making	things	happen	means	recognizing	the	pragmatic	realities of	the	next	day,	week,	or	month	as	well	as	the	direction	you	want	to	steer	the ship	in	the	next	one,	three,	or	ten	years. It	should	be	clear	by	now	that	management	is	all	about	the	art	of	balance. When	it	comes	to	planning	and	execution,	if	you	only	think	about	the	next	three months,	you	might	make	shortsighted	decisions	that	create	problems	down	the road.	On	the	flip	side,	if	you're	always	thinking	many	years	out,	you	might struggle	with	speedy	day-to-day	execution.	Here	are	some	common	examples	of what	happens	when	you	tilt	too	far	in	one	direction	or	the	other.
HIRING THE	SITUATION: You	need	to	hire	someone	for	an	important	role	on	your	team. THE	RISK	OF	THINKING	TOO	SHORT	TERM: You	say	yes	to	the	first	person	who seems	reasonable.	While	he	can	do	the	job	now,	he's	unable	to	grow	with	the role.	In	a	year,	you	find	yourself	once	again	with	a	leadership	gap. THE	RISK	OF	THINKING	TOO	LONG	TERM: Your	perfect	hire	is	nearly	impossible to	find	because	your	bar	is	so	high.	You	end	up	rejecting	candidate	after candidate.	Six	months	later,	you	still	haven't	landed	someone,	and	your team's	outcomes	are	suffering.
THE	SITUATION: You're	a	CEO	operating	in	a	competitive	industry.	You	need to	decide	which	initiatives	to	fund. THE	RISK	OF	THINKING	TOO	SHORT	TERM: You	don't	make	any	future investments	(like	upgrading	your	equipment)	because	it's	costly	in	the	short term.	Meanwhile,	your	competitors	do,	and	in	two	years,	they're	making	stuff faster	and	cheaper	than	you.
THE	RISK	OF	THINKING	TOO	LONG	TERM: You	sign	off	on	a	number	of	three-year projects	based	on	your	understanding	of	today's	market.	However,	a	year later,	the	market	has	changed,	and	your	plans	no	longer	make	sense. MANAGING	PERFORMANCE THE	SITUATION: You're	worried	that	the	person	you	currently	have	on	Project X	isn't	doing	a	good	job. THE	RISK	OF	THINKING	TOO	SHORT	TERM: You'll	make	do	with	Band-Aid solutions	like	micromanaging	your	report	or	jumping	in	to	work	on	aspects	of the	project	yourself,	neither	of	which	are	sustainable. THE	RISK	OF	THINKING	TOO	LONG	TERM: You	invest	in	coaching	your	report	to improve	his	performance.	However,	the	changes	don't	happen	quickly,	and the	project	flounders. As	these	examples	show,	you	can't	always	take	a	blanket	short-term	or	longterm	approach.	The	decisions	you	make	must	weigh	the	trade-offs	between	the two.	So	what	can	you	do	to	find	the	right	balance?

## Define	a	Long-Term	Vision	and	Work	Backward (p166)

Yogi	Berra	once	said,	'If	you	don't	know	where	you	are	going,	you	might	wind up	someplace	else.' Facebook's	mission	statement	is	to	give	people	the	power	to	build	community and	bring	the	world	closer	together.	In	thousands	of	ways	both	big	and	small, this	statement	is	a	North	Star	that	guides	every	team's	decision-making. In	2016,	our	design	team	took	on	the	challenge	of	extending	the	Like	button. The	inspiration	behind	the	project	came	directly	from	what	we	heard	from	users: while	people	loved	the	ability	to	quickly	give	a	thumbs-up	to	a	friend's	post, they	told	us	that	not	everything	they	saw	on	Facebook	felt	'likable.'	Sometimes, a	friend	would	share	that	they	had	had	a	bad	day,	and	the	sentiment	they	wanted to	express	was	support.	Sometimes,	they'd	encounter	news	in	the	world	that made	them	sad	or	angry.	Sometimes,	they	saw	something	so	genuinely	amazing that	they	wished	there	was	an	expression	stronger	than	'like.' Throughout	our	research,	many	people	gave	us	suggestions	for	what	we	could do.	The	most	common	was:	'Why	don't	you	build	a	Dislike	button?'	It	was	a logical	way	to	express	that	something	wasn't	'likable.'
We	considered	the	idea	and	even	came	up	with	a	few	different	designs	for how	it	might	work.	But,	ultimately,	we	decided	it	wasn't	quite	right.	Bringing people	closer	together	meant	designing	experiences	that	created	empathy,	and	we didn't	feel	the	Dislike	button	met	that	bar	because	it's	so	easily	misinterpreted.	If you	share,	'I	went	to	see	Movie	X	tonight	and	it	didn't	live	up	to	the	hype,'	and I	'dislike'	your	post,	how	should	you	read	my	action?	Did	I	also	dislike	Movie X?	Did	I	dislike	that	you	went	to	watch	Movie	X	in	the	first	place?	Did	I	dislike that	you	ragged	on	what	I	thought	was	an	awesome	movie? We	decided	to	do	more	research.	When	we	asked	people	what	they	meant when	they	said,	'I	wish	there	was	a	Dislike	button	on	Facebook,'	we	discovered that	they	typically	wanted	to	express	one	of	a	handful	of	emotions-sadness, anger,	sympathy,	or	surprise.	We	took	those,	as	well	as	the	two	other	most popular	sentiments	(love	and	laughter),	and	developed	a	system	of	lightweight reactions	to	add	to	the	thumbs-up	Like.	This	let	people	quickly	express	a	wider range	of	emotions	while	doing	so	in	a	way	that	stayed	true	to	our	mission. My	manager	Chris	often	reminds	us,	'It's	not	a	good	idea	to	design	where your	kitchen	outlets	should	go	when	you	haven't	yet	settled	on	the	floor	plan.'	In other	words,	start	by	understanding	the	bigger	picture.	What	problems	are	you hoping	to	solve	with	what	you're	doing?	How	do	you	imagine	people	will	get value	out	of	your	work?	Based	on	that,	what	are	the	most	important	priorities	for the	team	now?

## Take	a	Portfolio	Approach (p167)

One	of	the	top	questions	I	get	from	managers	is:	'How	can	I	carve	out	time	to focus	on	long-term	work	when	there's	so	much	to	do	right	now	to	keep	the	trains running?' In	the	framing	of	this	question,	there	is	an	assumption	that	popping	your	head up	to	plan	for	the	months	or	years	ahead	comes	at	the	expense	of	successful near-term	execution. It	doesn't	have	to	be	this	way.	One	of	my	colleagues	runs	her	team	with	a strategy	that	is	similar	to	that	of	an	investor's.	Just	as	no	financial	advisor	would recommend	putting	all	your	money	into	one	kind	of	asset,	neither	should	you tackle	projects	with	one	kind	of	time	horizon. My	colleague	makes	sure	that	a	third	of	her	team	works	on	projects	that	can be	completed	on	the	order	of	weeks,	another	third	works	on	medium-term projects	that	may	take	months,	and	finally,	the	last	third	works	on	innovative, early-stage	ideas	whose	impact	won't	be	known	for	years. By	taking	this	portfolio	approach,	her	team	balances	making	constant improvements	to	their	core	features	while	casting	an	eye	toward	the	horizon. Over	the	past	decade,	they've	shown	that	this	strategy	works:	her	team	has	an amazing	track	record	of	identifying	new	opportunities	and	scaling	them	to	huge businesses	over	the	course	of	three	years.

## Talk	about	How	Everything	Relates	to	the	Vision (p168)

If	you're	part	of	a	larger	organization,	you'll	likely	have	an	overarching	vision, whether	it's	'A	chicken	in	every	pot,'	'Be	earth's	most	customer-centric company'	(Amazon's	vision),	or	'Be	the	most	successful	and	respected	car company	in	America'	(Toyota	USA's	vision).	To	achieve	that,	your	team	will have	a	specific	role	to	play,	whether	it's	devising	a	new	tax	plan,	creating	the best	customer	service	in	the	industry,	or	shooting	for	close	to	zero	production errors. It	will	take	months	or	years	to	reach	your	team's	aspirations;	it	may	even	take decades	to	fulfill	your	organization's	greater	purpose.	And	yet,	if	everyone understands	and	buys	into	what	they	are	ultimately	trying	to	do,	the	tactical,	dayto-day	decisions	become	easier	because	you	can	look	at	them	through	the	lens of:	'Which	option	moves	us	closer	toward	the	future	that	we	want?'	When people	don't	understand	what	ultimately	matters	and	why,	that's	when	conflicts arise. Early	in	Facebook's	history,	Mark	Zuckerberg	received	a	billion-	dollar	offer to	sell	the	company.	Looking	back,	he	describes	this	as	his	toughest	period	as	a manager.	He	believed	in	Facebook's	potential	to	change	the	world,	but	he	was besieged	with	pressure	from	all	sides-investors,	employees,	mentors,	and	more. 'Nearly	everyone	else	wanted	to	sell,'	he	said	while	delivering	a	commencement address	at	Harvard	University	in	2017.	'Without	a	sense	of	higher	purpose,	this was	the	start-up	dream	come	true.	It	tore	our	company	apart.	After	one	tense argument,	an	advisor	told	me	if	I	didn't	agree	to	sell,	I	would	regret	the	decision for	the	rest	of	my	life.' This	was	the	turning	point.	Mark	made	the	decision	to	stay	the	course	and invest	in	building	Facebook's	future.	He	turned	down	the	offer.	But	the	lesson	he took	away	was	how	important	it	was	to	communicate	a	clear	vision	and	to	foster a	deep	sense	of	purpose	within	his	team.
At	the	same	time,	beware	of	conflating	your	purpose	with	the	proxies	that you	use	to	measure	your	progress.	For	example,	if	you	care	about	providing	the best	customer	service	in	the	industry,	one	data	point	you	might	track	is	how	long it	takes	to	resolve	a	customer	complaint.	Clearly,	great	customer	service correlates	with	issues	getting	resolved	quickly.	Based	on	that,	you	might	set	a goal	for	the	team	like,	'No	customer	complaints	should	take	more	than	three days	to	close	out.' It's	a	fine	goal	to	set,	but	don't	lose	sight	of	the	fact	that	it's	an	approximation of	what	you	really	care	about,	which	is providing	the	best	customer	service .	If your	team	focuses	too	much	on	this	specific	goal,	you	might	end	up	with customer	service	representatives	making	hasty	calls	that	go	against	what	the customer	wants.	If	speed	of	resolution	goes	up	but	quality	of	service	goes	down, then	you're	not	really	getting	closer	to	your	vision. This	is	why	it's	so	important	to	remind	people	of	what	really	matters. Describe	over	and	over	again	the	world	you'd	like	to	see.	Try	to	connect	every task,	project,	decision,	or	goal	with	the	organization's	higher-level	purpose.	If everyone	understands	the	dream,	then	the	team's	actions	will	be	aligned	in making	it	a	reality.

## GOOD	PROCESS	IS	EVER	EVOLVING (p169)

One	of	the	earliest	things	I	learned	about	building	products,	especially	digital ones,	is	that	there	is	no	such	thing	as	'finished.'	You	put	a	version	1.0	out	in	the world.	Then,	you	learn,	you	iterate,	and	you	make	a	better	version	2.0	or	3.0. I've	gone	through	countless	mobile	phones	since	my	first	little	blue	Nokia	3310 in	high	school.	I've	changed	the	pixels	on	countless	iterations	of	News	Feed since	its	introduction	in	2006.	What	we	can	achieve	is	bounded	only	by	the limits	of	our	imagination.	If	we	can	dream	better,	we	can	do	better. This	is	true	not	just	for	products,	but	also	process.	The	way	we	make	progress should	also	be	a	work	in	progress. One	of	the	most	useful	tools	for	improving	process	is	the	practice	of	doing debriefs	(also	called	retrospectives	or	postmortems).	You	can	do	this	at	the completion	of	a	project,	on	a	periodic	basis,	or	anytime	an	unexpected	event	or error	occurs.	Here's	how	it	works:	You	invite	the	team	to	come	together	for	an hour	or	two	to	reflect	on	what	happened.	What	went	well,	what	didn't	go	well, and	what	would	the	team	do	differently	next	time?
The	process	is	both	cathartic	and	instructive.	There	is	something	to	learn	even if	the	outcome	was	positive	(how	can	we	take	away	best	practices	for	other projects?).	If	the	outcome	wasn't	good,	debriefs	help	you	avoid	the	same mistakes	in	the	future. The	goal	of	a	debrief	is	not	judgment.	Don't	treat	it	as	a	trial-that's	the fastest	way	to	kill	the	practice.	Instead,	consider	it	an	opportunity	to	mine	the experience	for	future	lessons.	To	do	this,	you	must	create	a	safe	environment	to have	open	and	honest	discussions.	Present	the	facts	as	objectively	as	possible. ('Here's	the	timeline:	On	October	20,	Brian	and	Janice	first	discussed	the possibility	of	this	project.	On	November	16,	they	presented	the	proposal	and	got the	green	light	to	create	a	new	team.	.	.	.')	Use	language	that	takes	collective accountability	instead	of	pointing	fingers	('our	process	failed	.	.	.'	instead	of 'Leslie	made	a	mistake	.	.	.'),	and	set	the	tone	that	it's	okay	for	us	to	talk	about and	learn	from	our	errors. After	a	retrospective,	it's	a	good	idea	to	write	down	the	learnings	and	share them	widely.	A	team	growing	hardy	from	its	own	successes	and	missteps	is great,	but	when	they	can	also	help	others	improve	or	avoid	similar	errors,	that's even	better.	At	the	end	of	the	day,	a	resilient	organization	isn't	one	that	never makes	mistakes	but	rather	one	whose	mistakes	make	it	stronger	over	time. Resilient	processes	also	try	to	create	repeatable	best	practices.	Most	of	the work	needed	to	make	something	happen	in	today's	world	is	staggeringly complex.	Just	imagine	the	number	of	steps	it	takes	to	get	a	plane	to	take	off-the cabin	must	be	cleaned	from	the	previous	flight,	the	jet	must	be	refueled, passengers	must	be	checked	in,	luggage	must	be	loaded,	safety	checks	must	be done,	and	so	forth.	It's	near	impossible	to	remember	all	the	steps	in	your	head, let	alone	try	to	improvise	them	in	the	moment. Instead,	any	feat	of	complexity-whether	it's	getting	an	airplane	into	the	sky, delivering	a	premature	baby,	or	trying	to	advance	the	football	down	the	fieldrequires	a	playbook	that	lays	out	in	clear	detail	what	all	the	right	steps	are	given the	current	variables. As	a	manager,	part	of	your	job	will	be	the	cultivation	of	such	playbooks:	how to	run	a	team	meeting,	how	to	close	a	new	hire,	how	to	complete	a	project	on time	and	on	budget.	If	you	find	yourself	doing	a	similar	thing	over	and	over again,	chances	are	good	that	it	can	be	codified	into	an	instruction	manual	or checklist	that	can	make	the	task	go	smoother	in	the	future.	Another	bonus	of doing	this:	you	can	then	pass	the	playbook	to	others	to	learn	and	execute.
Some	years	ago,	I	started	sending	out	an	email	to	my	team	summarizing	our weekly	progress.	In	the	beginning,	it	was	easy	for	me	to	sit	down,	run	through	all the	projects	in	my	head,	and	jot	down	the	important	highlights. This	worked	well	for	a	year	or	so,	but	as	the	number	of	projects	doubled	and tripled,	my	process	started	showing	its	holes.	I'd	forget	what	everyone	was doing.	On	Monday	mornings,	team	members	would	ping	me	to	ask,	'Why	didn't you	write	about	my	project	in	the	weekly	update?	Did	you	not	think	it	was important?' I	was	becoming	the	bottleneck	for	accurately	keeping	track	of	updates.	So	I came	up	with	a	new	idea:	ask	my	team	to	send	me	what	they	wanted	to	highlight for	the	note.	We	tried	this	out,	and	immediately	I	felt	the	burden	of	needing	to remember	everything	lifted	from	my	shoulders.	With	my	new	crowdsourcing technique,	I	could	lean	back,	relax,	and	wait	for	the	email	to	write	itself. Except	.	.	.	not	quite.	The	submissions	rolled	in,	but	because	they	were written	by	many	different	people,	they	varied	wildly	in	prose	style	and	level	of detail.	I	had	to	play	the	role	of	editor,	taking	the	snippets	and	wrangling	them	so that	they	sounded	as	if	one	person	wrote	them.	Sometimes,	when	a	highlight came	in	that	didn't	have	enough	detail,	I'd	email	the	author	and	we'd	go	back and	forth	to	improve	it.	My	new	process	solved	some	major	problems	but created	new	ones-namely	that	it	still	took	me	a	really	long	time	to	put	together the	weekly	email. Enter	phase	three:	I	realized	I	was	frequently	giving	the	same	feedback	over and	over	again,	so	I	created	a	document	called How	to	Submit	a	Highlight	for	the Weekly	Digest .	In	it,	I	listed	the	goals	of	the	digest,	what	made	for	a	good highlight,	and	tips	to	keep	in	mind	while	writing.	I	shared	it	with	the	folks	on	my team	as	well	as	with	new	people	after	they	joined. Phase	three	seems	to	be	working	for	now,	but	I	expect	that,	as	things	change, even	small	processes	like	this	will	continue	to	evolve.	The	next	chapter	goes	into more	detail	about	how	to	manage	a	growing	team. This	book	itself	is	the	latest	iteration	of	my	personal	playbook,	the culmination	of	years	of	failing,	succeeding,	and	trying	in	the	endeavor	known	as management.	I'm	writing	it	for	you,	but	I'm	also	writing	it	for	myself-so	that	I can	remember	the	mistakes	I've	made	and	the	lessons	I've	tucked	away	for	the future. Heraclitus,	the	Greek	philosopher,	once	said:	'No	man	ever	steps	in	the	same river	twice,	for	it	is	not	the	same	river	and	he	is	not	the	same	man.'	Every challenge	is	like	crossing	such	a	river.	Investigate	the	stepping-stones,	the currents,	the	hidden	eddies.	And	then,	once	you	make	your	plan,	take	that	first step	to	get	to	the	other	side. In	the	process	of	navigating	that	river,	you	might	slip.	You	might	fall	in.	You might	have	to	start	over	again.	But,	hopefully,	you	are	made	wiser.	Take	a moment	to	reflect	on	what	you've	learned	and	how	you	might	plan	that	next crossing.	And	may	you	boldly	saunter	across	rushing	water	the	next	time	it meets	your	path.

## Chapter	Nine (p173)


## Leading	a	Growing	Team (p173)

Back	when	we	still fit	around	a	conference	room	table,	a	new	designer joining	our	merry	band	was	a	momentous	event.	Everyone	loved	sitting	down and	showing	her	how	we	worked-where	we	kept	our	design	files,	what	tools	to download,	which	meetings	to	attend.	We	were	grateful	that	someone	else	had come	to	help	us	accomplish	more	together.	Even	better,	the	newcomer	brought additional	superpowers,	whether	it	was	an	eagle	eye	for	visuals,	a	deep understanding	of	human	motivation,	or	an	uncanny	ability	to	propose	out-of-thebox	ideas.	Our	critique	group	pulled	up	an	extra	chair	and	expanded	its perspective.	Two	pizzas	were	still	enough	to	feed	everyone. A	few	months	later,	another	new	person	would	join.	And	another.	And another.	And	each	time,	the	process	repeated	itself-new	faces	and	superpowers were	introduced	to	the	current	team	and	our	existing	processes. Until	one	day,	you	wake	up	and	realize	the	old	ways	no	longer	work. The	turning	point	for	me	was	walking	into	critique	one	day	and	realizing	that, all	of	a	sudden,	our	regular	room	didn't	have	enough	seats	for	everyone.	This wasn't	a	big	deal	in	and	of	itself-a	few	helpful	folks	quickly	went	out	and brought	back	some	extra	chairs-but	when	we	made	the	list	of	everyone	who wanted	to	share,	it	was	ten	people	long.	In	the	past,	we	were	lucky	if	we	could get	through	even	five	or	six	projects	in	a	single	meeting! This	meant	that	half	of	those	who	volunteered	wouldn't	get	a	chance	to present	that	day.	Since	critique's	whole	purpose	was	to	be	a	reliable	forum	for design	feedback,	something	had	to	change. And	it	wasn't	just	that	one	meeting.	My	own	days	were	getting	squeezed	with the	need	to	support	our	team's	growth.	There	were	more	unexpected	issues	that kept	popping	up,	more	announcements	to	communicate,	more	decisions	to	keep track	of.	This	pattern	kept	repeating	itself.	As	soon	as	I	figured	out	a	better process,	a	few	more	people	would	join	and	the	gears	would	get	clogged	once more.	The	only	way	to	stay	effective	was	to	constantly	change	and	adapt. When	I	first	began	managing,	my	team	was	only	a	handful	of	people.	And then	it	doubled.	Every	few	years,	it	doubled	again.	At	each	of	those	points,	I	felt like	I	had	an	entirely	different	job.	While	the	core	principles	of	management stayed	the	same,	the	day-to-day	changed	significantly. Your	frontline	view	of	how	a	team	works	starts	to	evolve	into	a	macro	view. Setting	a	vision,	hiring	leaders,	delegating	responsibility,	and	managing communication	become	the	key	skills	needed	to	bridge	the	gap.	In	this	chapter, we'll	look	at	the	differences	you'll	experience	and	how	to	make	the	leap.

## BIG	TEAMS	VERSUS	SMALL	TEAMS (p176)

In	Silicon	Valley,	hyper-growth	is	almost	a	way	of	life.	The	siren	song	of	an ambitious	dream	can	cause	teams	to	expand	at	a	dizzying	pace.	Career	pages	list dozens	of	roles;	weekly	orientations	greet	a	sea	of	new	faces.	It's	common	to feel	that	change	and	chaos	are	the	only	constants;	everything	else	is improvisation.	I	tell	prospective	employees	that	a	major	reason	why	I	love	my job	is	this	quality-with	new	challenges	popping	up	every	day,	opportunities	to learn	are	everywhere	I	look. People	often	ask	me	what's	different	about	my	job	now	than	when	I	started. Looking	back,	these	are	the	most	striking	contrasts	between	managing	small	and large	teams.

## Direct	to	Indirect	Management (p176)

If	your	team	is	five	people,	you	can	develop	a	personal	relationship	with	each individual	where	you	understand	the	details	of	their	work,	what	they	care	about and	are	good	at,	and	maybe	even	the	hobbies	they	enjoy	outside	of	the	office. If	your	team	is	thirty	people,	you	can't	manage	them	all	directly,	at	least,	not to	the	same	degree.	If	you	did	weekly	thirty-minute	1:1s	with	everyone,	that alone	would	take	fifteen	hours-about	half	of	the	workweek!	Add	in	time	to follow	up	on	any	action	items	from	those	conversations,	and	you'd	barely	be able	to	do	anything	else.	When	I	got	to	more	than	eight	reports,	I	started	to	feel like	I	didn't	have	enough	hours	in	the	day	to	support	everyone	well	while	also thinking	about	hiring,	ensuring	high-quality	design	work,	and	contributing	to product	strategy. This	is	why	managers	of	growing	teams	eventually	start	to	hire	or	develop managers	underneath	them.	But	this	means	you're	further	removed	from	the people	and	the	work	on	the	ground.	You're	still	responsible	for	your	team's outcomes,	but	you	can't	be	in	all	the	details.	Decisions	will	be	made	without your	input,	and	things	will	be	done	differently	than	how	you	might	personally	do them. At	first,	this	can	feel	disorienting,	like	you're	losing	control.	But	empowering your	leaders	is	a	necessity.	One	of	the	biggest	challenges	of	managing	at	scale	is finding	the	right	balance	between	going	deep	on	a	problem	and	stepping	back and	trusting	others	to	take	care	of	it.	More	on	that	topic	in	a	bit.

## People	Treat	You	Differently (p177)

Some	years	ago,	when	my	team	had	grown	beyond	the	point	where	I	knew everybody	personally,	I	attended	a	review	where	three	designers	who	reported	up through	me	presented	their	latest	work.	I	gave	them	my	feedback	and	asked	for	a follow-up	review	the	next	week.	Before	we	ended,	I	asked	if	there	were	any thoughts	or	questions	about	what	I	had	said.	Everyone	shook	their	heads.	I	left thinking	that	it	was,	all	in	all,	a	good	and	productive	meeting. Later	in	the	day,	I	saw	one	of	my	direct	reports	who	also	happened	to	be	in that	meeting.	He	wore	a	grave	look	on	his	face.	'I	caught	up	with	the	team	and they're	not	feeling	good	about	the	review	this	morning,'	he	told	me.	I	thought	he was	joking.	'What?	Why?'	'They	didn't	agree	with	your	feedback,'	he	said. 'But	why	didn't	they	tell	me	that?'	I	asked	incredulously.	My	report	paused. 'Well,	Julie,	you're	kind	of	a	big	deal,	so	they	were	intimidated.' It	was	the	first	time	I'd	ever	heard	anyone	refer	to	me	as	'kind	of	a	big	deal.' It	was	hard	to	compute.	When	did	I	become	the	kind	of	person	who	intimidated others?	I'd	always	prided	myself	on	my	approachability. What	I	learned	is	that	it	didn't	matter	how	I	saw	myself.	When	people	don't know	you	well	and	see	that	you're	in	a	position	of	authority,	they're	less	likely	to tell	you	the	ugly	truth	or	challenge	you	when	they	think	you're	wrong,	even	if you'd	like	them	to.	They	might	think	it's	your	prerogative	to	call	the	shots.	They might	not	want	to	disappoint	you	or	have	you	think	badly	of	them.	Or	they	might be	trying	to	make	your	life	easier	by	not	burdening	you	with	new	problems	or imposing	on	your	time. Be	aware	of	this	dynamic	in	your	interactions	with	others.	Are	your suggestions	being	taken	as	orders?	Are	your	questions	coming	off	as	judgments? Are	you	presuming	that	things	are	rosier	than	they	really	are	because	you're	not hearing	the	full	story? Happily,	there	are	some	countermeasures	you	can	take	to	make	it	easier	for people	to	tell	you	the	truth.	Emphasize	that	you	welcome	dissenting	opinions and	reward	those	who	express	them.	Own	your	mistakes	and	remind	your	team that	you	are	human,	just	like	everyone	else.	Use	language	that	invites	discussion: 'I	may	be	totally	wrong	here,	so	tell	me	if	you	disagree.	My	opinion	is	.	.	.'	You can	also	ask	directly	for	advice:	'If	you	were	me,	what	would	you	do	in	this situation?'

## Context	Switching	All	Day,	Every	Day (p178)

When	I	managed	a	small	team,	I	spent	many	afternoons	with	a	handful	of designers	at	the	whiteboard,	exploring	new	ideas.	So	deep	would	we	get	into	the flow	of	our	work	that	hours	would	pass	in	the	blink	of	an	eye. As	my	team	grew,	my	capacity	to	spend	long,	focused	blocks	on	a	single topic	began	to	shrink.	More	people	meant	that	we	could	tackle	more	projects, which	meant	that	my	time	broke	into	smaller	and	smaller	fragments.	Ten	emails would	come	into	my	inbox	about	ten	completely	different	topics.	Back-to-back meetings	required	me	to	immediately	shed	the	past	discussion	and	get	mentally prepared	for	the	next	one. When	I	didn't	do	this	well,	I'd	be	distracted	and	overwhelmed,	my	mind constantly	jumping	from	one	topic	to	another.	I'd	lose	focus	during presentations.	I'd	mutter	that every	day	felt	like	a	week . Over	time,	I	came	to	understand	that	this was the	job.	As	the	number	of projects	I	was	responsible	for	doubled,	tripled,	and	quadrupled,	my	ability	to context	switch	also	needed	to	keep	pace.	I	discovered	a	few	techniques	to	make this	easier:	scanning	through	my	calendar	every	morning	and	preparing	for	each meeting,	developing	a	robust	note-taking	and	task-management	system,	finding pockets	for	reflection	at	the	end	of	every	week.	Some	days	I'm	still	distracted. But	I've	come	to	accept	that	there	will	always	be	a	dozen	different	issues	to work	through	at	any	given	time-some	big,	some	small,	and	some	unexpectedand	as	the	manager	of	a	large	team,	you	learn	to	roll	with	it.

## You	Pick	and	Choose	Your	Battles (p178)

When	I	managed	a	small	team,	there	were	days	when	I'd	close	my	laptop	and walk	out	of	the	office	with	zero	outstanding	tasks	left-my	inbox	was	cleared, my	to-dos	were	crossed	off,	and	nothing	else	needed	my	attention.	As	my	scope grew,	those	days	became	rarer	and	rarer	until	they	ceased	to	exist	completely.
It's	a	game	of	numbers,	after	all.	The	more	you	look	after,	the	more	likely	it	is that	something	under	your	purview	isn't	going	as	well	as	it	could	be.	It	might	be projects	falling	behind	schedule,	miscommunications	that	need	clearing	up,	or people	who	aren't	getting	what	they	need.	At	any	given	moment,	I	can	list dozens	of	areas	that	I	could	be	working	to	improve. But	at	the	end	of	the	day,	you	are	only	one	individual	with	a	limited	amount of	time.	You	can't	do	everything,	so	you	must	prioritize.	What	are	the	most important	topics	for	you	to	pay	attention	to,	and	where	are	you	going	to	draw	the line?	Perfectionism	is	not	an	option.	It	took	me	a	long	time	to	get	comfortable operating	in	a	world	where	I	had	to	pick	and	choose	what	mattered	the	most,	and not	let	the	sheer	number	of	possibilities	overwhelm	me.

## The	Skills	That	Matter	Become	More	and	More	People-Centric (p179)

I	remember	hearing	about	a	CEO	who	made	the	executives	on	his	team	switch roles	every	few	years,	like	a	game	of	musical	chairs.	I	was	skeptical.	It	seemed like	one	of	those	tall	tales	meant	to	illustrate	a	point	about	the	importance	of workplace	empathy.	But	really,	now.	How	could	a	sales	executive	be	expected	to know	how	to	run	an	engineering	organization	or	a	chief	financial	officer	be	a strong	chief	marketing	officer? Nowadays,	I	don't	think	an	executive	swap	is	as	far-fetched	as	I	once thought.	As	teams	grow,	managers	spend	less	of	their	day-to-day	on	the	specific craft	of	their	discipline.	What	matters	more	is	that	they	can	get	the	best	out	of	a group	of	people.	For	example,	no	CEO	is	an	expert	across	sales	and	design, engineering	and	communications,	finance	and	human	resources.	And	yet,	she	is tasked	with	building	and	leading	an	organization	that	does	all	of	these	things. At	higher	levels	of	management,	the	job	starts	to	converge	regardless	of background.	Success	becomes	more	and	more	about	mastering	a	few	key	skills: hiring	exceptional	leaders,	building	self-reliant	teams,	establishing	a	clear	vision, and	communicating	well.

## THE	TIGHTROPE	ACT	OF	GREAT	DELEGATION (p179)

For	me,	the	most	rewarding	part	of	growing	my	team	has	been	watching	our collective	capabilities	extend	far	beyond	what	any	one	of	us	could	have achieved.	But	on	the	flip	side,	the	hardest	part	has	been	learning	how	to effectively	delegate,	which	I	define	as	'the	art	of	knowing	when	to	dive	in yourself	and	when	to	step	back	and	entrust	others.'	Like	crossing	a	tightrope while	blindfolded,	the	balance	is	difficult	to	sustain. At	each	extreme,	you've	become	a	sitcom	cliché:	Dive	in	too	much,	and you're	the	micromanager.	You	ask	your	reports	to	run	every	decision	by	you. You're	constantly	checking	in	with	people,	asking	for	status	updates	and	diving in	to	the	minutiae	of	tasks. Did	John	correct	the	last	statement	yet?	When	is	the China	shipment	coming	in?	I	don't	like	the	shade	of	blue	on	this	packaging. You have	a	reputation	for	prowling	behind	people's	desks	and	giving	your	opinion about	what's	on	their	screens. Even	if	you	get	results,	your	style	is	stifling.	Talented	people	leave	because they	can't	stand	working	for	you.	They	don't	feel	that	you	give	them	trust	or breathing	room	to	operate.	And	they're	not	learning	because	they	don't	get	a chance	to	solve	problems	on	their	own.	Rumor	has	it	that	what	you	really	want	is an	army	of	robots	to	do	your	bidding. At	the	other	extreme,	if	you	step	back	too	much,	you're	the	absentee manager.	Some	of	your	reports	appreciate	the	independence,	but	most	wish	they had	more	support.	When	things	get	rocky,	your	team	feels	like	the	Wild	West,	a place	with	no	rules	because	there's	no	sheriff	in	town. Your	hands	are	pristine	because	you	rarely	roll	up	your	sleeves	and	get	into the	nitty-gritty.	You	don't	make	hard	calls	or	proactively	push	things	forward. Over	time,	you	lose	credibility	as	a	leader	because	.	.	.	well,	you	don't	do	much. And	your	reports	aren't	learning	because	you're	not	coaching	or	challenging them.	People	whisper	that	maybe	you	aren't	really	there	at	all-you're	simply overhead . Of	course,	in	the	real	world,	we're	rarely	at	the	extremes.	But	we	do	tend	to lean	one	way	or	the	other	based	on	our	values.	For	example,	as	a	new	manager,	I was	on	the	absentee	side	of	the	spectrum	because	I	personally	disliked	being micromanaged.	Then,	when	I	got	feedback	that	my	reports	wanted	me	to	be more	hands-on,	I	overcorrected	and	then	heard:	'Okay,	too	much!' It's	also	common	to	lean	different	ways	in	different	aspects	of	the	job depending	on	where	your	team	is.	For	example,	in	the	span	of	a	week,	one	report gave	me	feedback	that	I	was	too	opinionated	about	a	specific	design	detail,	while another	report	asked	me	to	get	more	involved	with	the	strategy	of	a	separate project.	Each	needed	different	things-one	was	confident	in	what	he	was	doing, so	my	involvement	seemed	overbearing.	The	other	wasn't,	and	so	wanted	more of	my	help.
In	the	moment,	you	don't	always	know	how	you're	doing	on	the	balance.	I've had	situations	where	I've	stepped	back	in	an	area	thinking, This	is	going	fine	so I'm	going	to	focus	on	something	else .	Then,	a	few	weeks	later,	I	realized	that	I hadn't	set	up	the	work	well	and	that	I	should	have	remained	closer	to	the	details. Delegating	well	is	far	from	an	exact	science,	but	there	are	a	few	guiding principles	that	we'll	explore	next.

## GIVING	PEOPLE	BIG	PROBLEMS	IS	A	SIGN	OF	TRUST (p181)

Growing	up,	I	had	the	kind	of	grandmother	who	would	gladly	do	anything	to make	my	life	easier.	When	I	went	outside	to	play	on	a	winter's	day,	she'd	run	out waving	a	sweater	and	yelling	my	name.	When	I	came	home	from	school,	there would	be	a	beautiful	plate	of	snacks	waiting	for	me.	When	I	struggled	with	basic tasks-opening	a	box	of	markers,	figuring	out	where	the	next	puzzle	piece should	go,	or	getting	a	book	from	a	top	shelf-she'd	drop	whatever	she	was doing	and	say,	'Here,	let	me.' On	the	one	hand,	I	knew	she	was	doing	these	things	out	of	a	fierce	love.	She didn't	want	to	see	me	go	through	any	hardships.	But	on	the	other	hand,	I	found myself	wishing	that	she	wouldn't.	We	joke	now	about	how	I	used	to	yell	at	her, 'Go	away!	Don't	help	me!'	when	she'd	materialize	like	a	fairy	godmother	with some	food	or	clothing	or	a	spare	hand.	I	wanted	her	love	and	support,	but	like	all kids,	I	craved	independence.	I	wanted	the	freedom	to	deal	with	my	own	issues my	way. With	this	background,	you'd	think	that	I'd	be	more	clearheaded	in	my approach	to	delegation.	But	no,	I	thought	that	it	was	the bad managers	who	gave hard	problems	to	their	reports.	I	imagined	them	lazing	about,	sipping	wine	after a	morning	round	of	golf.	Great	managers,	in	my	mind,	were	like	my grandmother-they	took	on	the	biggest	burdens	of	the	team	to	spare	their reports. There	are	two	major	errors	with	that	line	of	thinking.	The	first	is overestimating	what	you,	the	manager,	are	capable	of.	Yes,	it	may	be	within	your power	to	solve	a	wide	variety	of	issues,	but	as	a	single	individual,	you	can't solve that	many of	them.	The	best	work	comes	from	those	who	have	the	time	to live	and	breathe	a	problem	fully,	who	can	dedicate	themselves	to	finding	the	best solution. The	second	error	is	assuming	that	nobody	wants	to	take	on	hard	problems.	In fact,	the	most	talented	employees	aren't	looking	for	special	treatment	or	'easy'
projects.	They want to	be	challenged.	There	is	no	greater	sign	of	trust	than handing	your	report	an	intricately	tangled	knot	that	you	believe	she	can	pull apart,	even	if	you're	not	sure	how. The	key,	of	course,	is	that	you	need	to actually believe	your	report	is	capable of	solving	the	problem.	If	that's	the	case,	give	it	to	her	and	step	back	so	she	has the	space	to	lead.	Tell	everyone	else	that	she	should	now	be	considered	the owner	of	the	problem.	Doing	so	creates	accountability,	but	more	important,	the public	declaration	empowers	the	delegate.	For	example,	imagine	a	CEO	asking an	employee,	Elaine,	to	be	in	charge	of	managing	the	company's	finances.	To	be effective,	Elaine	needs	everyone	to	respect	the	budget	she	sets	and	provide	the financial	information	she	needs.	Will	Elaine	have	an	easier	time	if	the	CEO	tells the	entire	company,	'Elaine	is	our	chief	financial	officer,'	or	if	he	privately	asks her	to	do	this	without	letting	anyone	else	know? Delegating	a	hard	problem	doesn't	mean	you	simply	walk	away.	Just	like	you wouldn't	toss	a	novice	swimmer	into	the	deep	end	of	the	pool	while	you	go	and get	a	snack,	you	shouldn't	leave	your	report	to	fend	for	himself.	He's	the	captain, but	you're	with	him	on	the	boat.	You're	rooting	him	on,	helping	him	with whatever	he	needs	you	to	do,	and	coaching	him	so	he	can	smoothly	and	safely sail	to	his	destination.

## TWO	HEADS,	ONE	SHARED	VISION (p182)

When	I	was	just	starting	out,	I	thought	that	a	manager	could	only	be	effective	if she	knew	everything	that	was	going	on.	How	else	could	you	make	good decisions	or	give	relevant	feedback?	In	1:1s,	I'd	ask	my	reports	for	status updates.	We'd	go	through	the	latest	design	work,	the	product	debates	of	the moment,	and	the	timelines	and	expectations	for	the	next	week. We	never	had	enough	time	to	cover	everything.	It	turns	out	that	doing	this kind	of	knowledge	transfer	during	1:1s	is	poor	management	practice	for	many reasons.	One-on-ones	aren't	for	the	manager's	benefit;	they	should	be	about what's	helpful	for	the	other	person.	Also,	it's	unrealistic	to	expect	that	you should	know	all	the	details	of	your	report's	day-to-day,	especially	as	your	team grows	and	your	reports	are	managers	juggling	their	own	long	lists	of responsibilities. What	you should expect	is	that	you	see	eye	to	eye	on	what's	most	important. The	historian	Yuval	Noah	Harari,	in	his	bestselling	book Sapiens ,	theorizes	that the	one	unique	trait	that	made	the	human	species	the	most	successful	in	the world	is	that	we	are	able	to	share	the	same	vision	in	our	heads,	which	helps	even complete	strangers	work	together.	'We	control	the	world	basically	because	we are	the	only	animals	that	can	cooperate	flexibly	in	very	large	numbers,'	says Harari. To	create	a	shared	vision	of	what's	important,	ask	yourself	two	things.	The first	is, What	are	the	biggest	priorities	right	now	for	our	team? Then,	talk	about those	with	your	reports	and	discuss	how	they	might	play	a	role.	For	example,	if the	company	is	in	the	midst	of	executing	a	new	strategy,	talk	about	why	that's happening	and	how	your	teams	will	be	affected.	Similarly,	if	an	impending launch	is	keeping	you	up	at	night,	you	and	your	reports	should	discuss	how everyone	can	do	their	part	to	ensure	things	go	smoothly. Once	these	top	priorities	are	covered,	ask	yourself	the	second	question: Are we	aligned	in	how	we	think	about	people,	purpose,	and	process? Digging	in	one	level	deeper,	does	your	report	know	what	matters	to	you	when it	comes	to	team	building?	Does	he	understand	what	you	expect	of	him	as	a coach	for	his	own	reports?	Do	you	see	eye	to	eye	on	which	of	his	team	members are	knocking	it	out	of	the	park	and	which	aren't	meeting	expectations? Once,	a	few	colleagues	and	I	put	together	a	project	update	for	my	manager Chris	at	a	review	meeting.	Our	news	was	bleak-some	recent	product	launches hadn't	gone	as	well	as	we'd	hoped,	and	the	team	was	feeling	drained.	We	walked into	the	room	bracing	ourselves	for	a	serious	talk	about	the	state	of	affairs. Instead,	Chris	said,	'So	there's	a	lot	going	on,	but	what	I'm	most	interested	in	is the	team.	Do	we	feel	like	we	have	the	right	people	on	the	right	problems?'	His question	cut	through	the	noise	and	reminded	us	of	what	mattered	most.	People trump	projects-a	great	team	is	a	prerequisite	for	great	work. Beyond	people,	you	and	your	report	should	be	aligned	on	why	you're	doing what	you're	doing	and	what	success	looks	like.	As	Antoine	de	Saint-Exupéry has	been	attributed	as	saying,	'If	you	want	to	build	a	ship,	don't	drum	up	the men	to	gather	wood,	divide	the	work,	and	give	orders.	Instead,	teach	them	to yearn	for	the	vast	and	endless	sea.' This	week's	tasks,	meetings,	and	emails	will	be	little	blips	lost	in	the	sands	of time.	What	is	the	greater	purpose	behind	them?	Why	do	you	get	out	of	bed	every morning	and	come	to	work?	What	will	be	different	about	the	world	if	your	team achieves	its	goals?	Constantly	talking	about	the	purpose	with	your	reports	makes it	more	vivid	in	everyone's	minds.	When	the	vision	is	clear,	the	right	actions	tend to	follow.
Lastly,	are	your	reports	establishing	healthy	processes	for	their	teams? Whether	it's	advice	on	how	to	pitch	new	ideas,	best	practices	for	communicating important	updates,	discussions	on	meeting	dos	and	don'ts-my	reports	tell	me that	whenever	we	talk	about	how	to	best	get	things	done,	it	always	feels	like	a valuable	use	of	time.

## WHAT	TO	DO	WHEN	A	MANAGER	STRUGGLES (p184)

What	should	you	do	if	one	of	the	managers	on	your	team	isn't	meeting	the expectations	of	her	role?	You	might	think, My	job	is	to	support	her	and	help	her through	it. You're	not	wrong.	After	all,	we	just	talked	about	how	important	it	is to	empower	your	leaders	to	tackle	hard	problems.	If	the	bar	is	perfection,	nobody is	even	going	to	try.	Part	of	delegating	well	is	recognizing	that	your	reports-like you-will	make	mistakes	and	doubt	themselves,	and	that	often	the	best	thing you	can	do	is	to	believe	in	them. But	the	full	answer	is	more	nuanced.	A	manager's	job	is	to	be	a	positive multiplier	for	her	team.	When	she	isn't,	the	costs	are	high:	projects	take	longer because	she	inserts	herself	at	the	wrong	times,	outcomes	are	poor	because	she makes	bad	calls,	or	complaints	pile	up	because	her	people	aren't	getting	what they	need. Even	when	a	manager	isn't	actively	making	things	worse,	she	may	still	be holding	the	team	back.	Maybe	she	can	put	out	fires	but	she's	not	helping	the team	become	more	fireproof.	Or	she	can	fill	roles	but	not	attract	the	best	talent. Or	maybe	she	requires	more	coaching	to	be	effective	than	you	have	time	to	give. At	fast-scaling	organizations,	it's	common	for	new	teams	to	form	almost overnight	to	tackle	new	challenges.	Early	on,	those	teams	are	small	and	scrappy, so	any	manager	hired	is	expected	to	oversee	a	handful	of	people	and	a	few speculative	projects. Now,	fast-forward	two	or	three	years.	Due	to	a	mix	of	ingenuity,	hard	work, and	luck,	some	of	those	speculative	projects	become	hugely	successful.	The teams	behind	them	grow	rapidly	to	keep	pace.	That	original	manager,	perfect	for an	early-stage	team,	is	now	grappling	with	the	challenges	of	leading	a	much bigger	group.	What	was	once	a	smoothly	sailing	ship	now	feels	as	though	it's pitching	back	and	forth	against	a	wild	storm. In	those	situations,	I'd	find	myself	at	a	crossroads.	Of	course	I	believed	in	the manager.	He	might	need	to	improve	certain	skills,	but	I	knew	he'd	eventually	get there.	I	myself	went	through	those	very	same	choppy	waters.	The	growth mindset	taught	me	that	anyone	can	get	better	at	anything	given	the	will,	hard work,	and	time.	The	question	was,	how	long	would	it	take?	And	how	would	that affect	the	team? Once,	as	I	was	working	through	those	questions	with	a	report	we'll	call Raphael,	I	turned	to	the	words	of	Andy	Grove:	'The	subordinate	did	poor	work. My	associate's	reaction:	'He	has	to	make	his	own	mistakes.	That's	how	he learns!'	The	problem	with	this	is	that	the	subordinate's	tuition	is	paid	by	his customers.	And	that	is	absolutely	wrong.' Andy	reminded	me	that	the	end	goal	of	management	is	to get	better outcomes .	When	someone	isn't	a	great	fit	for	his	role,	there	is	a	cost.	Would	you rather	pay	it	by	making	a	hard	move	or	by	passing	it	on	to	other	team	members and	customers? A	friend	of	mine	gave	me	the	gift	of	another	clarifying	question.	He	asked: 'Assume	the	role	was	open.	Would	you	rather	rehire	your	current	leader	or	take a	gamble	on	someone	else?' This	question	helped	me	to	zero	in	on	what	really	mattered.	Here	I	was, worried	about	dozens	of	details-how	Raphael	would	feel,	whether	or	not	I	was giving	him	enough	feedback,	the	thrash	everyone	else	would	go	through-when the	most	important	question	was, What's	going	to	make	the	team	more	successful over	the	next	few	years? The	following	week,	I	sat	down	with	Raphael	and	told	him	that	I	felt	he should	move	off	his	current	role.	The	conversation	wasn't	easy,	but	looking	back now,	I	know	that	it	was	the	right	call.	The	new	manager	who	came	in	afterward had	a	wealth	of	experience	running	bigger	teams.	Like	a	seasoned	captain	who had	sailed	all	over	the	world,	he	sauntered	up	to	the	wheel	and	steered	the	ship out	of	the	storm.	After	a	few	months	of	transition,	the	team	thrived	and	its	work improved. Change	is	hard,	but	trust	your	instincts.	Would	you	hire	this	person	again	if the	role	were	open?	If	the	answer	is	no,	make	the	move.

## AIM	TO	PUT	YOURSELF	OUT	OF	A	JOB (p185)

The	best	managers	I	know	all	agree	on	one	thing:	growing	great	teams	means that	you	are	constantly	looking	for	ways	to	replace	yourself	in	the	job	you	are currently	doing. For	example,	if	you're	responsible	for	solving	Problem	X	and	you	can	find	or train	someone	to	do	it	as	well	as	you	(or,	ideally, better than	you),	then	your team	as	a	whole	becomes	more	capable	and	you	personally	can	take	on	more.	A friend	of	mine	states	it	as	a	simple	rule	of	thumb:	'Try	to	double	your	leadership capacity	every	year.' This	sounds	nice	in	theory	but	is	harder	to	do	in	practice	because	we	have	a tendency	to	get	attached	to	what	we're	doing.	We	may	love	the	task	itself	or	the sense	of	expertise	and	control	it	gives	us. Every	Monday,	I	used	to	run	a	company-wide	design	meeting.	I	had	come	up with	the	idea	when	the	team	was	still	small,	so	I	managed	the	agenda	and	played the	role	of	emcee.	I	was	proud	of	this	weekly	ritual	when	all	the	designers gathered	around	to	hear	the	latest	updates,	see	examples	of	inspiring	work,	and welcome	the	newest	members	of	the	team.	And,	to	be	honest,	it	felt	nice	to	be	in charge	and	see	the	fruits	of	my	labor. But	the	point	of	being	a	manager	is	not	to	satisfy	your	own	ego;	it's	to improve	the	outcomes	of	your	team.	In	the	early	days,	I	saw	a	need	for	us	to share	lessons	and	build	community,	so	I	initiated	the	meeting.	I	didn't	think anybody	else	would	do	it.	Years	later,	this	was	no	longer	the	case.	We	had	plenty of	new	leaders	who	could	run	that	meeting. I	ended	up	delegating	it	accidentally.	During	my	parental	leave,	I	asked	a	few of	my	teammates	to	sub	for	me	while	I	was	out.	When	I	came	back,	the	meeting was	running	better	than	I'd	left	it.	The	presenters	came	in	more	prepared,	the content	was	better	organized,	and	even	our	introductions	felt	more	fun. That	was	when	I	realized	my	mistake.	I	should	have	handed	off	that	meeting a	long	time	ago.	I	felt	tied	to	it	because	it	had	become	habitual,	even	a	part	of	my identity.	And	yet,	in	my	absence,	the	organizers	breathed	new	life	into	it.	They were	excited	for	the	challenge,	and	I	was	able	to	focus	on	other	priorities. Everybody	won. The	rule	of	thumb	for	delegation	goes	like	this:	spend	your	time	and	energy on	the	intersection	of	1)	what's	most	important	to	the	organization	and	2)	what you're	uniquely	able	to	do	better	than	anyone	else. From	this,	you	can	extrapolate	that	anything	your	report	can	do	just	as	well	or better	than	you,	you	should	delegate. Some	time	ago,	a	few	of	my	reports	suggested	that	we	do	more	to	strengthen relationships	within	our	team.	They	noticed	people	scurrying	from	meeting	to meeting	and	from	home	to	work	without	really	getting	to	know	each	other. Couldn't	we	do	more	to	build	community?	What	about	events	like	group lunches,	show-and-tell	learning	sessions,	or	mentorship	circles?	I	loved	all	the suggestions.	But,	personally,	this	wasn't	my	strong	suit.	(After	we	got	engaged,
my	fiancé	learned	that	planning	social	events	like	a	wedding	ranks	among	my least	favorite	activities	in	the	world.) Happily,	other	folks	on	the	team	were	the	exact	opposite,	including	the manager	who	had	kicked	off	the	discussion.	He	loved	meeting	new	people	and rallying	groups	together,	so	I	asked	him	to	take	charge	of	figuring	out	what	we should	do.	One	of	his	ideas,	a	monthly	Wednesday-night	mixer,	grew	so	popular that	it	expanded	beyond	our	team	to	become	a	regular	meet-and-greet	for	the local	design	community. For	the	things	that	you	do	better	than	your	reports,	unless	it	falls	into	the 'most	important	priorities'	bucket	or	you	don't	believe	they	are	set	up	to succeed,	you	should	still	try	to	delegate	as	much	as	possible	and	coach	them along	the	way.	For	example,	because	I've	managed	longer,	I'm	more comfortable	having	hard	conversations	than	some	newer	leaders	on	my	team. Does	that	mean	that	whenever	anyone	needs	to	hear	a	tough	message,	I	should be	the	one	delivering	it?	Definitely	not.	It's	better	if	everyone	can	collectively improve	their	feedback	skills	over	time. This	is	a	classic	example	of	short-term	versus	long-term	trade-offs.	If	your report	presents	you	a	problem	that	you	can	easily	solve,	it	can	be	difficult	to resist	saying,	'I'll	take	care	of	it.'	But	as	the	proverb	goes,	give	someone	a	fish, and	you	feed	them	for	a	day.	Teach	someone	to	fish,	and	you	feed	them	for	a lifetime. As	for	what	you	shouldn't	delegate,	consider	the	unique	value	you're	able	to add	when	it	comes	to	the	organization's	top	priorities.	Some	of	that	flows	from your	personal	strengths.	For	example,	I'm	a	good	writer,	so	over	the	years	I've used	that	skill	to	help	our	team	document	and	share	its	values-from	authoring career	guidelines	and	interview	playbooks	to	putting	out	internal	notes	on lessons	we've	learned	in	building	products.	One	of	my	colleagues	is	an	amazing operator,	so	he's	responsible	for	running	our	design	team's	most	complex processes,	such	as	recruiting.	My	manager	Chris	is	one	of	the	most	inspiring speakers	I	know,	so	he's	the	first	person	to	greet	new	employees	at	orientation and	tell	them	about	Facebook's	mission	and	values. Beyond	your	individual	superpowers,	there	are	a	few	other	patterns	that	lie	at the	intersection	of	'important	to	the	organization'	and	'you	can	add	unique value.'
Identifying	and	communicating	what	matters. Your	role	has	broader	scope, which	means	that	you're	able	to	see	across	a	wider	variety	of	work	and	spot patterns	that	your	reports	might	miss. A	few	years	ago,	I	noticed	that	some	of	our	recent	launches	had	design elements	that	were	trying	to	do	the	same	thing	but	looked	and	behaved differently.	For	example,	a	button	would	be	dark	blue	and	rectangular	in	one	part of	the	product,	but	light	blue	and	oval	in	another.	A	Back	button	might	be	at	the top	of	the	page	in	some	instances	but	at	the	bottom	in	others.	This	had	the	effect of	making	our	product	feel	harder	to	use	because	there	weren't	predictable patterns	that	people	could	rely	on.	Seeing	this,	I	rallied	our	team	to	establish	a common	design	pattern	library	so	that	we'd	all	work	off	the	same	building blocks.	As	we	scaled,	this	library	became	an	increasingly	important	tool	to	help us	move	quickly	and	cohesively.
Hiring	top	talent. Because	prospective	candidates	are	generally	interested	in talking	with	senior	leaders,	you	have	an	advantage	when	it	comes	to	finding	and closing	talent.	I	attend	industry	events	and	speak	at	conferences	so	that	I	can attract	people	to	our	team.	I	tell	my	reports	that	if	they	have	a	candidate	they're excited	about,	I'm	happy	to	send	that	person	a	note	or	offer	to	talk	on	the	phone. My	manager	does	the	same	for	me.	No	matter	if	you	are	the	CEO	or	a	front-line manager,	building	a	great	team	is	one	of	the	most	important	things	you	can	do.
Resolving	conflicts	within	my	group. Imagine	that	there	are	two	separate projects	managed	by	two	of	your	reports,	both	of	which	are	understaffed.	A	new person	wants	to	join	your	team.	Which	project	should	he	work	on? You	can't	ask	your	reports	to	sort	this	out	and	come	back	to	you	with	a recommendation	because	neither	has	the	full	perspective	on	what	matters	most. They'll	waste	time	trying	to	convince	each	other	why	their	project	really	needs that	new	person.	The	decision	has	to	be	made	by	you.	Make	sure	your	leaders know	to	quickly	escalate	to	you	whenever	two	goals	come	into	conflict	or	when the	priorities	aren't	clear.
Once,	as	I	was	describing	the	philosophy	of	always	looking	to	put	yourself out	of	a	job,	a	report	asked	me:	'Okay,	but	if	you did delegate	everything	to others,	doesn't	that	mean	you	become	overhead?	Why	would	you	still	be valuable?' It	was	an	excellent	question,	and	one	I've	asked	before	as	well.	In	response,	I said,	'If	you	delegated	everything	you	did	today	to	someone	else,	do	you	think there'd	be	no	more	problems	left	for	you	to	solve?'
Today,	my	job	looks	very	different	than	when	I	started.	Every	time	I've	given a	piece	of	it	away,	I've	discovered	that	there	was	ever	more	to	take	on.	As	long as	you	continue	to	be	motivated	by	your	purpose,	as	long	as	your	aspirations extend	beyond	what	your	team	is	currently	capable	of,	as	long	as	you	can	see new	challenges	on	the	horizon,	then	there's	opportunity	for	you	to	have	more impact.	Often,	this	means	doing	new	things	that	you're	not	very	good	at	yet. Compared	to	the	expertise	you	had	in	the	responsibilities	you	delegated	away, this	can	feel	uncomfortable. And	yet,	as	your	team	grows	in	its	size	and	abilities,	so	too	must	you	grow	to keep	pace	as	its	manager.	The	act	of	constantly	trying	to	replace	yourself	means that	you	create	openings	to	stretch	both	your	leaders	and	yourself.	Right	ahead	is another	mountain	that's	bigger	and	scarier	than	the	one	before.	Everyone	keeps climbing,	and	everyone	achieves	more	together.

## Chapter	Ten (p190)


## Nurturing	Culture (p190)

Whenever	I	ask	prospective candidates	if	they	have	any	questions	for	me, inevitably	we	get	to	talking	about	culture:	'What's	unique	about	your	team?' 'What	are	the	best	and	worst	parts	of	your	job?'	'How	are	decisions	made?'	'If you	could	change	one	thing	about	the	way	the	company	works,	what	would	that be?' A	manager	I	admire	once	told	me	that	an	organization's	culture	is	best understood	not	from	reading	what's	written	on	its	corporate	website	but	from seeing	what	it's	willing	to	give	up	for	its	values.	For	example,	many	teams	say that	they	care	about	their	employees	fully	owning	problems.	Nobody's	going	to admit,	'Actually,	we	like	to	shirk	responsibility	and	blame	mistakes	on	others.' But	operating	with	full	ownership	has	its	trade-offs.	Are	you	willing	to tolerate	the	chaos	that	comes	from	everyone	trying	to	do	what	they	think	is	best? Can	you	appreciate	when	other	people	challenge	your	decisions?	Are	you	okay accepting	responsibility	for	mistakes	that	aren't	directly	your	own?	At	Facebook, we	have	a	saying	immortalized	in	posters	all	across	campus: Nothing	at Facebook	Is	Somebody	Else's	Problem . One	summer,	a	new	intern	took	down	the	Facebook	service	by	accidentally introducing	a	bad	error	into	the	codebase.	As	everyone	worked	madly	to	fix	the mistake,	I	caught	a	glimpse	of	his	ashen	face.	I'm	sure	he	thought	he	was	going to	be	fired. He	wasn't.	His	manager	apologized	instead	for	not	setting	him	up	better. Other	engineers	took	accountability	for	not	catching	the	error	beforehand.	The entire	team	then	participated	in	a	postmortem	to	understand	why	the	failure happened	and	what	changes	could	be	made	to	prevent	similar	issues	in	the future. Culture describes	the	norms	and	values	that	govern	how	things	get	done.	A manager	I	was	mentoring	once	shared	with	me	his	epiphany	about	the	job	three years	in.	'At	first,	I	thought	management	was	about	supporting	the	individuals who	reported	to	me,'	he	said.	'I	focused	on	creating	the	best	one-on-one relationships	I	could.	But	now	I	realize	that	isn't	enough.	Because	it's	not	just about my relationship	to	the	team.	It's	also	about	their	relationships	with	each other,	and	with	the	group	as	a	whole.' As	you	manage	more	and	more	people,	you'll	play	a	bigger	role	in	shaping culture.	Don't	underestimate	the	influence	that	you	can	have.	Even	if	you're	not the	CEO,	your	actions	reinforce	what	the	company	values.	The	next	few	sections guide	you	through	how	to	establish	the	kind	of	culture	that	you're	proud	of.

## KNOW	THE	KIND	OF	TEAM	YOU	WANT	TO	BE	A	PART	OF (p194)

Your	team's	culture	is	like	its	personality.	It	exists	whether	or	not	you	think about	it.	If	you're	not	satisfied	with	how	your	team	works	together-maybe	the vibe	feels	hostile	instead	of	helpful,	maybe	it	takes	a	long	time	to	get	things done,	or	maybe	there's	constant	drama-it's	worth	examining	why	this	might	be and	what	you	can	do	about	it. Remember	the	exercises	from	Chapter	Five:	Managing	Yourself	when	we wrote	down	your	personal	strengths,	growth	areas,	and	aspirations?	It's	time	to do	the	same	with	your	team.	The	key	is	to	find	the	intersection	between	what your	team	does	well	and	what	you	hope	the	team	values.	When	you	have	an	hour or	so,	grab	a	pen	and	jot	down	your	answers	to	the	following	questions:
What	are	the	first	three	adjectives	that	come	to	mind	when	describing	the personality	of	your	team?
What	moments	made	you	feel	most	proud	to	be	a	part	of	your	team?	Why?
What	does	your	team	do	better	than	the	majority	of	other	teams	out	there?
If	you	picked	five	random	members	of	your	team	and	individually	asked each	person,	'What	does	our	team	value?'	what	would	you	hear?
How	similar	is	your	team's	culture	to	the	broader	organization's	culture?
Imagine	a	journalist	scrutinizing	your	team.	What	would	she	say	your	team does	well	or	not	well?
When	people	complain	about	how	things	work,	what	are	the	top	three things	that	they	bring	up?
Describe	the	top	five	adjectives	you'd	want	an	external	observer	to	use	to describe	your	team's	culture.	Why	those?
Now	imagine	those	five	adjectives	sitting	on	a	double-edged	sword.	What do	you	imagine	are	the	pitfalls	that	come	from	ruthless	adherence	to	those qualities?	Are	those	acceptable	to	you?
Make	a	list	of	the	aspects	of	culture	that	you	admire	about	other	teams	or organizations.	Why	do	you	admire	them?	What	downsides	does	that	team
Make	a	list	of	the	aspects	of	culture	that	you	wouldn't	want	to	emulate	from other	teams	or	companies.	Why	not?
On	a	scale	from	one	to	nine,	with	nine	being	'we're	100	percent	there'	and one	being	'this	is	the	opposite	of	our	team,'	how	close	is	your	current	team from	your	aspirations?
What	shows	up	as	both	a	strength	of	your	team	as	well	as	a	quality	you value	highly?
Where	are	the	biggest	gaps	between	your	current	team	culture	and	your aspirations?
What	are	the	obstacles	that	might	get	in	the	way	of	reaching	your aspirations?	How	will	you	address	them?
Imagine	how	you	want	your	team	to	work	in	a	year's	time.	How	would	you describe	to	a	report	what	you	hope	will	be	different	then	compared	to	now?
Depending	on	what's	within	your	control,	some	of	your	aspirations	may	be doable	and	some	unrealistic.	For	example,	if	you	want	your	team	to	operate	with utter	focus	and	zero	distractions,	you	might	prefer	they	sit	in	a	remote	area	and avoid	interacting	with	other	groups.	But	if	the	broader	company	values	openness and	collaboration,	your	preference	would	be	hard	to	achieve. That	said,	subcultures	can	grow	and	flourish	within	a	larger	organization.	For example,	Facebook's	growth	team	values	being	rigorously	data	informed.	Our infrastructure	engineering	team	is	known	for	its	long-term	focus.	And	within design,	we	care	about	finding	holistic	solutions	to	problems. Once	you've	identified	the	values	you	want	to	nurture	within	your	team,	the next	step	is	to	develop	a	game	plan	to	help	those	values	flourish.

## NEVER	STOP	TALKING	ABOUT	WHAT'S	IMPORTANT (p195)

When	I	first	started	managing,	I	considered	it	bad	form	to	repeat	myself.	I figured	that	my	team	would	find	it	annoying,	and	perhaps	even	condescending,	if I	said	the	same	thing	over	and	over	again. Sheryl	Sandberg	was	the	one	who	taught	me	otherwise.	Some	years	ago, Sheryl	started	talking	to	the	company	about	the	importance	of	hard conversations.	Whenever	we're	feeling	tension	with	our	coworkers-they	have	a habit	that	irritates	us,	we	disagree	about	an	important	decision,	or	they	do something	that	seems	thoughtless-she	encouraged	us	to	sit	down	with	the	other person	and	discuss	that	tension	openly.	Because	if	you	don't,	nothing	will	get better,	and	resentment	will	only	grow. I	can't	recall	exactly	when	Sheryl	started	talking	about	hard	conversations, and	that's	precisely	the	point.	It	could	have	been	during	one	of	our	companywide	meetings,	or	during	a	Q&A,	or	during	a	dinner	hosted	at	her	house.	She would	ask	people	to	raise	their	hands	if	they'd	had	a	hard	conversation	in	the past	month.	She'd	then	tell	us	a	story	about	one	of	her	recent	hard	conversations. 'Hard	conversations'	became	part	of	the	vernacular	at	Facebook	because Sheryl	believed	so	strongly	that	it	was	critical	for	a	healthy	company	culture.	To this	day,	whenever	I	feel	tension	knotting	in	my	stomach-a	misunderstanding that's	gone	on	for	too	long,	a	concern	about	a	strategy,	a	sense	that	a	coworker	is upset	with	me-I	think	of	Sheryl.	Then	I	square	my	shoulders	and	invite	that person	for	a	heart-to-heart	chat. When	you	value	something	deeply,	don't	shy	away	from	talking	about	it. Instead,	embrace	telling	people	why	it's	important	to	you.	Assume	that	for	the message	to	stick,	it	should	be	heard	ten	different	times	and	said	in	ten	different ways.	The	more	you	can	enlist	others	to	help	spread	your	message,	the	more likely	it	is	to	have	an	impact. These	days,	I	think	a	lot	about	how	to	communicate	what	I	care	about.	I	try different	approaches-1:1	conversations	about	what's	on	my	mind,	emails	to	my managers	about	my	reflections	for	the	week,	notes	to	my	entire	staff	on	our	top priorities,	and	in-person	Q&A	sessions	focused	on	how	we	work. I've	found	that	the	more	frequently	and	passionately	I	talk	about	what's important	to	me-including	my	missteps	and	what	I've	learned	through	themthe	more	positively	my	team	responds.	I'll	get	notes	from	people	saying,	'I	care about	that	too.	How	can	I	help?'	I'll	hear	others	reinforcing	the	same	messages and	supporting	each	other	to	change	their	behavior.	And	even	when	people disagree	with	me,	the	act	of	discussing	it	openly	sheds	light	on	the	topic	for everyone. As	I've	given	greater	voice	to	what	I	care	about,	nobody,	not	even	once,	has told	me	that	it's	annoying	or	condescending.	Instead,	the	feedback	is	the	opposite -talking	about	your	values	makes	you	a	more	authentic	and	inspiring	leader.

## ALWAYS	WALK	THE	WALK (p197)

People	watch	their	bosses	closely	to	understand	the	team's	values	and	norms. Our	radars	are	fine-tuned	to	spot	instances	where	someone	in	a	position	of authority	says	one	thing	and	does	another.	This	is	one	of	the	fastest	ways	to	lose trust.	Consider	the	following	examples:
A	manager	asks	his	team	to	spend	company	money	wisely,	but	then splurges	on	a	fancy	desk	and	couch	for	his	office.
A	manager	expresses	annoyance	when	her	report	shows	up	after	a	meeting has	already	started,	but	she	herself	is	five	minutes	late	to	everything.
A	manager	says	he	wants	more	diverse	perspectives	on	the	team	but	only promotes	people	who	think	like	him.
A	manager	says	a	top	goal	is	to	create	a	supportive	work	environment,	but she	has	a	tendency	to	lose	her	temper	and	chew	out	her	reports.
A	CEO	says	that	the	goal	of	his	company	is	to	serve	a	social	mission,	but his	decisions	read	like	they	are	favoring	short-term	profits.
If	you're	not	willing	to	change	your	behavior	for	a	stated	value,	then	don't bring	it	up	in	the	first	place. I	experienced	this	lesson	the	hard	way.	Once,	a	report	asked	me	in	a	1:1	what I	believed	was	the	best	way	for	her	to	accelerate	her	learning.	She	was	brighteyed	and	fiercely	determined,	the	kind	of	person	who	never	met	an	obstacle	she couldn't	overcome.	Delighted	by	the	question,	I	responded,	'Ask	for	feedback.' I	then	spent	the	rest	of	the	1:1	describing	how	important	I	considered	feedback	to be,	along	with	some	suggestions	for	how	she	could	proactively	seek	it	out. Maybe	she	could	show	her	designs	to	trusted	colleagues	outside	of	critique	or ask	for	a	few	quick	takes	on	how	well	she	presented	following	a	review.	My report	nodded	along. Because	she	was	so	motivated,	I	expected	to	see	her	try	out	these	tactics	right away	and	ask	me	and	others	for	more	feedback.	But	I	saw	no	change. A	few	weeks	later,	we	all	went	through	360	reviews.	This	report	shared	her feedback	with	me	directly.	She	gave	some	good	suggestions	around communication	and	prioritization.	At	the	very	end,	she	included	this	bullet:	'You rarely	ask	me	or	others	on	the	team	for	feedback,	and	I'd	love	to	see	you	do more	of	it.'
It	was	eye	opening.	I	realized	that	as	much	as	I	talked	about	the	importance	of asking	for	feedback,	I	wasn't	living	it	myself.	And	she	noticed!	Chastened,	I resolved	to	keep	practicing	until	it	became	habitual. If	you	say	something	is	important	to	you	and	you'd	like	the	rest	of	your	team to	care	about	it,	be	the	first	person	to	live	that	value.	Otherwise,	don't	be surprised	when	nobody	else	does	either.

## CREATE	THE	RIGHT	INCENTIVES (p198)

Let's	say	you	talk	the	talk	and	walk	the	walk.	That	means	all	your	cultural aspirations	will	come	true,	right?	Not	quite.	The	final	piece	is	ensuring	that	your environment	rewards	people	who	behave	according	to	your	team's	values	and holds	people	accountable	when	they	don't. If	the	incentives	don't	match-if,	say,	you	care	a	lot	about	operating	with transparency	but	your	team	believes	they	will	be	better	off	if	they	conceal important	information	from	you-you	need	to	dig	deeper	to	understand	what's sending	that	message.	What	actions	or	results	does	your	team	celebrate,	and where	does	it	draw	the	line? Sometimes,	even	the	best	intentions	can	lead	to	bad	incentives.	Some	years ago,	I	noticed	that	during	design	critique,	most	of	the	room	was	showing	just	one design	exploration	for	a	given	problem.	This	wasn't	ideal	because	the	best solutions	tend	to	come	from	trying	many	different	ideas.	If	you	say	'good enough'	to	the	first	thing	that	pops	into	your	head,	you're	probably	leaving better	options	undiscovered. The	following	week,	I	asked	everyone	to	bring	in	at	least	three	different explorations	of	whatever	they	were	working	on.	Thinking	this	was	a	brilliant way	to	encourage	more	creativity,	I	eagerly	awaited	our	next	critique. The	first	designer	to	present	showed	the	room	a	simple	promotion	describing a	new	feature	we	were	about	to	launch.	'Here's	what	I	came	up	with,'	he	said. There	was	a	graphic	sitting	next	to	some	text,	with	a	blue	button	to	learn	more. We	nodded	along-it	was	a	solid	design.	'Here	are	some	other	variations	as well,	since	we	were	asked	to	show	at	least	three	options.'	He	then	flipped through	a	few	more	images	where	he	changed	the	positioning	of	the	text	and graphic	and	made	the	button	a	different	color.	Each	version	was	clearly	worse than	the	original.	'Why	are	we	considering	an	orange	button	here	when	all	the other	buttons	on	our	site	are	blue?'	someone	asked.	'That	doesn't	really	make sense.'
As	the	critique	went	on,	it	became	clear	that	my	'show	three	explorations' rule	also	wasn't	making	sense.	While	some	people	ended	up	with	a	wider	range of	interesting	ideas,	others	went	through	the	motions	of	changing	things	just	for the	sake	of	it,	not	because	they	were	excited	about	the	new	options.	This	created busywork	and	wasted	everybody's	time. I	hear	similar	stories	of	bad	incentives	in	other	fields.	A	well-known	example in	engineering	is	tracking	lines	of	code	and	rewarding	engineers	who	write	the most.	While	it	seems	logical	at	first	glancethis	is	going	to	encourage	everyone to	work	harder	and	write	programs	faster! -in	practice,	what	you	get	is	bloated, copy-and-paste	code	rather	than	neat,	elegant	functions.	The	equivalent	in writing	is	paying	an	author	by	the	word,	which	would	make	sense	if	longer novels	always	made	for	better	reading.	Hemingway	may	beg	to	differ. These	days,	I'm	wary	of	seemingly	simple	incentive	rules	that	promise amazing	results.	They	are	rarely	simple,	and	often	leave	collateral	damage. Usually,	a	better	option	is	to	have	a	frank	discussion	about	what	we	should	value and why. Why	should	we	care	about	exploring	more	designs	early	on?	Why should	we	aim	to	speed	up	engineering	velocity?	Once	people	understand	and buy	into	those	values,	they	can	make	the	best	decisions	on	how	to	apply	them. Here	are	some	other	common	incentive	traps	to	avoid:
Rewarding	individual	performance	over	anything	else. Imagine	a	sales	team that	hears,	'Nothing	is	more	important	than	hitting	your	personal	quota.'	A member	of	that	team	is	then	presented	with	a	choice	to	either	undercut	his colleague	on	a	deal,	which	is	easy	to	do,	or	try	to	land	a	new	deal,	which	is harder.	Based	on	these	incentives,	he	will	be	better	off	if	he	chooses	the	former.
Rewarding	short-term	gains	over	long-term	investments. Imagine	an engineering	team	whose	bonuses	are	determined	every	six	months	based	on	how many	new	features	they've	released.	The	manager	has	to	decide	between working	on	a	number	of	lower-impact	features	or	tackling	the	most-requested customer	feature,	which	will	take	a	year	to	build.	The	incentives	suggest	that	she should	pick	the	lower-impact	features.
Rewarding	lack	of	perceived	issues	or	conflict. Imagine	a	manager	who constantly	talks	about	how	happy	he	is	that	everyone	on	his	team	gets	along. Whenever	someone	brings	up	a	disagreement,	he	either	dismisses	it	as	'not	a	big deal'	or	expresses	dissatisfaction	that	the	issue	exists	in	the	first	place.	Over time,	his	team	learns	to	hide	their	conflicts	from	him.	Meanwhile,	resentment and	passive-aggressive	behavior	grows.
Rewarding	the	squeaky	wheel. Imagine	a	manager	whose	report	interviews	at another	company	and	gets	a	higher	offer.	The	report	says	she'll	leave	unless	she gets	a	raise	to	match.	The	manager	says	okay.	The	story	gets	out,	and	suddenly all	the	other	members	of	the	team	feel	incentivized	to	interview	at	other	places.
The	way	to	identify	and	resolve	incentive	traps	is	to	regularly	reflect	on	what the	difference	is	between	your	stated	values	and	how	people	are	actually behaving	on	your	team.	What's	leading	them	to	make	certain	decisions?	If you're	not	sure,	ask. Why	did	you	choose	to	build	these	five	features	instead	of the	one	that	the	customers	are	asking	for? If	you	learn	the	issue	is	primarily structural,	make	changes	to	your	incentives	so	that	the	right	behaviors	are rewarded. If	the	issue	isn't	structural,	but	someone	does	something	that's	out	of	line with	your	values,	you	must	still	take	action.	For	example,	maybe	you	care	deeply about	creating	an	atmosphere	of	respect	within	your	team.	One	day,	you	hear someone	shouting	rudely	at	a	teammate.	If	you	do	nothing,	you	risk	sending	the message	that	you	tolerate	this	kind	of	behavior.	Instead,	defuse	tensions	in	the moment	by	asking	the	shouter	to	calm	down	or	help	them	leave	the	room.	Later, in	private,	tell	them	that	what	they	did	is	unacceptable. When	a	report	does	something	difficult	that is in	the	spirit	of	your	team's values-passing	up	a	lucrative	sales	deal	because	of	ethical	concerns,	firing	a star	performer	who	is	creating	a	toxic	work	environment,	or	admitting	openly when	they've	made	a	mistake-recognize	them	for	it.	Acknowledge	that	it	was hard,	and	thank	them	for	doing	the	right	thing.

## INVENT	TRADITIONS	THAT	CELEBRATE	YOUR	VALUES (p200)

Not	long	after	I	started	at	Facebook,	I	decided	to	join	a	group	of	engineers	for lunch.	As	I	approached,	I	saw	that	they	were	in	the	middle	of	a	vigorous	debate. One	of	them	had	proposed	an	idea	for	a	new	feature	he	was	sure	would	change the	world.	Others	weren't	so	convinced.	'I	can't	imagine	myself	using	that	in	a million	years,'	someone	retorted.	He	motioned	to	me	as	I	sat	down.	'What	do you	think,	Julie?'	Half	a	dozen	heads	turned	in	my	direction.	'Hmm	.	.	.'	I	took a	sip	of	soup,	trying	to	figure	out	how	to	gracefully	extricate	myself	from	being	a deciding	vote	on	a	topic	I	had	next	to	no	context	on. Happily,	someone	else	jumped	in.	'Well,	why	don't	you	build	this	feature	and we'll	see?'	'Yeah!'	another	voice	agreed.	'Do	it	at	the	next	hackathon!' I	learned	then	that	a hackathon was	a	storied	company	tradition.	The	goal	was to	come	in	and	spend	a	few	dedicated	hours	creating	a	prototype	of	an	idea	you were	excited	about.	Whether	alone	or	with	a	handful	of	others,	you	were encouraged	to	build	whatever	you	thought	was	good	for	the	company. Hackathons	were	known	for	their	buzzy	energy,	often	lasting	into	the	wee	hours of	the	night	until	you	could	wave	your	colleagues	over	to	see	a	live,	working version	of	the	thing	in	your	head. Hackathons	resulted	in	some	well-known	and	successful	products-chat	and video,	among	others.	But	more	than	that,	they	were	a	fun	way	to	bring	people together	and	make	concrete	Facebook's	earliest	values:	'Be	Bold'	and	'Move Fast.' There	is	power	in	rituals.	Beyond	slogans	or	speeches,	they	create	actions around	which	team	members	can	bond.	And	they	can	be	as	unique,	quirky,	and fun	as	your	team. I	love	learning	about	the	different	traditions	teams	have	to	celebrate	their values.	Here	are	some	examples:
Personal	prompts	(like	'Favorite	childhood	movie'	or	'Best	gift	you	ever received	at	Christmas')	at	the	start	of	a	meeting	so	people	can	get	to	know their	teammates	better
Monthly	'Learn	how	to	paint/sculpt/craft'	nights	to	encourage	creativity and	beginner's	mindset
A	gigantic	'customer	love'	stuffed	teddy	bear	awarded	to	the	person	who went	above	and	beyond	to	help	a	customer	in	the	past	month
An	annual	Oscars-style	award	ceremony	so	people	can	recognize	all	the ways	in	which	their	coworkers	are	awesome
Monday	morning	yoga	sessions	to	promote	mindfulness
'Fail	of	the	week,'	where	people	share	their	mistakes	in	a	safe	forum	to encourage	authenticity	and	learning
One	of	the	things	Mark	Zuckerberg	has	continued	to	do	for	more	than	ten years	is	hold	an	internal	Q&A	on	Friday	afternoons,	where	anybody	at	the company	can	ask	him	any	question	and	get	an	honest	answer.	These	questions can	be	about	Facebook's	future	direction,	recent	decisions	Mark	made,	company policies,	or	even	Mark's	personal	opinions	on	the	latest	news.	Some	of	these questions	can	be	extremely	direct-for	example,	'X	seems	like	a	bad	idea-why are	we	doing	it?' At	an	organization	as	big	as	Facebook,	there	are	thousands	of	demands	on	the CEO's	time.	And	yet	Mark	continues	to	stand	in	front	of	the	company	every week	talking	about	whatever	people	choose	to	bring	up.	Why?	Because	one	of Facebook's	greatest	values	is	openness.	If	he	doesn't	set	an	example,	why	should anyone	else	believe	it's	important? As	a	leader,	nurturing	culture	may	not	be	the	first	thing	on	your	mind.	You may	be	dreaming	about	the	changes	you	want	to	create	in	the	world	or	sketching out	the	master	strategy	that	will	get	you	there.	But	success	or	failure	aren't usually	the	results	of	a	few	sweeping	decisions.	Rather,	how	far	you	get	will	be the	sum	of	the	millions	of	actions	taken	by	your	team	during	the	small,	quotidian moments.	How	does	everyone	treat	each	other?	How	do	you	solve	problems together?	What	are	you	willing	to	give	up	to	act	in	accordance	with	your	values? Pay	attention	to	your	own	actions-the	little	things	you	say	and	do-as	well as	what	behaviors	you	are	rewarding	or	discouraging.	All	of	it	works	together	to tell	the	story	of	what	you	care	about	and	how	you	believe	a	great	team	should work	together.

## Epilogue (p203)


## The	Journey	Is	1%	Finished (p203)

When	I	look	back on	my	management	path	thus	far,	it	looks	like	a	toddler's attempt	at	drawing	a	straight	line-full	of	squiggles,	swerves,	and	mistaken meanderings.	There	are	countless	instances	where	I	look	back	and	wince, remembering	how	I	handled	things,	remembering	that	ever-present	taste	in	my mouth	of	inexperience	and	expectation,	confusion	and	ambition. There	were	late	nights	spent	over	chat	arguing	about	some	incredibly	trivial issue,	my	blood	pressure	spiking	as	the	words	blinked	onto	the	screen,	shorter and	sharper	with	each	volley.	There	were	1:1s	where	neither	of	us	would	hear	the other,	a Game	of	Thrones -esque	wall	between	us.	There	were	meetings	where	I slouched	in	the	back,	surly	because	I	thought	I	was	right	and	everybody	else	was wrong.	I've	had	people	break	down	in	tears	in	front	of	me	while	I	stammered like	a	malfunctioning	robot.	I've	had	months	when	I	couldn't	meet	my	own manager's	eyes	without	bursting	into	tears	myself. There	were	so	many	instances	where	I	didn't	feel	experienced	enough, farsighted	enough,	empathetic	enough,	determined	enough,	or	patient	enough. As	a	result,	projects	faltered.	Misunderstandings	festered.	And	people	I	cared about	left	feeling	like	I	let	them	down. But	I	was	lucky.	I	learned	how	to	manage	in	one	of	the	most	dynamic environments	in	the	world,	under	some	of	the	best	leadership	of	our	era.	My managers	believed	in	me.	My	colleagues	showed	me	how	to	strive	for	better. And	my	team	inspired	me. If	you	take	a	walk	around	the	Facebook	office,	you'll	see	that	there	are	no bare	white	walls.	The	ceilings	are	open	and	unfinished,	exposing	pipes	and bundles	of	wires.	Our	space	is	covered	with	art	and	the	artifacts	of	our	culture. There	are	flyers	about	upcoming	hackathons,	images	of	our	newest	data	centers, and	reminders	to	'Be	Bold'	and	that	'Nothing	at	Facebook	Is	Somebody	Else's Problem . '	My	favorite	is	a	poster	with	big	orange	capital	letters.	I	have	a	smaller version	sitting	on	my	desk	at	home	too.	It	reads: The	Journey	Is	1%	Finished . In	another	ten	years,	I	know	I'll	look	back	and	realize	that	the	path	I'm	on today	is	still	squiggly.	There	is	much	left	to	learn,	and	I	am	far	from	being	the manager	I	aspire	to	be.	But	with	time,	will,	and	a	growth	mindset,	the	lessons ahead	are	right	there	for	my	taking. Recently,	I	was	having	a	1:1	with	a	new	manager.	We	were	talking	about	her observations	a	few	weeks	in-the	challenges	of	stepping	into	a	new environment,	the	differences	between	this	place	and	her	last	job,	the opportunities	to	do	meaningful	work.	Then	she	gave	me	one	of	the	best compliments	I've	ever	received:	'You've	built	a	great	team,	and	I'm	excited	to be	a	part	of	it.' A	group	of	people	working	in	unison	is	a	wonderful	thing	to	behold.	Done well,	it	ceases	to	be	about	you	or	me,	one	individual	or	another.	Instead,	you	feel the	energy	of	dozens	or	hundreds	or	even	thousands	of	hearts	and	minds	directed toward	a	shared	purpose,	guided	by	shared	values.	If	you	or	I	do	our	jobs	well, then	our	teams	will	thrive.	We	will	build	something	that	will	outlast	us,	that	will be	made	stronger	by	all	who	become	a	part	of	it. Good	luck	in	your	path	ahead.	Go	out	with	your	team	and	make	something wonderful	together.